
    Pool Reports by Meryl Kornfield, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




November 18, 202208:41 ICT

Travel pool report #1 - Hotel
Good morning from Bangkok, where it's 84 degrees but it feels like 104 degrees with the humidity. The pool has gathered in the lobby of the hotel, where we've been swept. We will soon depart for the Queen Sirikit National Convention Center where the Vice President is expected to give remarks at 9:15 a.m. local time. We've been told her remarks, and conversations during the APEC Leaders Retreat, are closed to the press. Below is the daily guidance sent by the White House in an earlier email for awareness.
At 9:15 AM ICT, the Vice President will participate in the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) Leaders Retreat. This retreat at Queen Sirikit National Convention Center will be closed press.
At 12:30 PM ICT, the Vice President will deliver remarks at the APEC CEO Summit to underscore the U.S. enduring economic commitment to the Indo-Pacific. These remarks at The Athenee Hotel will be pooled press and open to pre-credentialed media.
At 6:45 PM ICT, the Vice President and Second Gentleman will attend an audience with His Majesty King Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajiraklaochaoyuhua and Her Majesty Queen Suthida Bajrasudhabimalalakshana. This audience at the Chakri Maha Prasat Hall in the Grand Palace will be closed press.



November 18, 202208:56 ICT

Travel pool report #2 - rolling
At 8:54 a.m., we are rolling to the convention center. Your pooler did not see the Vice President before we left but briefly spotted the Second Gentleman in the hotel lobby before our departure.



November 18, 202209:20 ICT

Travel pool report #3 - arrival
The motorcade arrived at the Queen Sirikit National Convention Center at 9:12 a.m. The street outside the center is blocked off by Thai police and lined with flags and signs with APEC's logo. The entrance was flanked by heavily armed officers. The pool did not see Harris as we are being taken to a separate entrance for security screening. The White House said the Vice President was greeted by PM Prayut Chan-O-Cha.



November 18, 202209:52 ICT

Travel pool report #4 - waiting for speech
The pool has gone through security and is waiting in the media center. We will be able to see the opening speech to be given by PM Prayut Chan-O-Cha on a live feed, but we will not be able to go into the room where leaders are gathered. The introduction is expected to last five minutes. I will share an Otter transcript from our booth where a translator will be provide the English translation of the remarks.



November 18, 202210:04 ICT

Travel pool report #5 - speech
PM Prayut Chan-O-Cha spoke about the harms of the pandemic and climate change on the economy and the importance of cooperation. Quote: "We have to fight economy repercussion from COVID pandemic, and we are also hurt by other global affairs and climate crisis that affects not only Asia-Pacific but also livelihood of the whole world, and we need to cooperate to prevent these effects, and we need to transition into a new way of life." The PM spoke about the importance of a Bio-Circular Green, or BCG Economy, and then he turned the mic over to the other leaders in alphabetical order of country, beginning with Australia. The audio cut out after. Transcript here (not exact, please check for errors):https://otter.ai/u/iZnADwoCdWOE42zOuytXcH7T_KI



November 18, 202212:32 ICT

Travel pool report #6 - meeting about North Korea
On background attributed to a White House official:
Following APEC Leaders Retreat in Bangkok, Vice President Harris will convene a meeting with world leaders to consult on the DPRK's recent ballistic missile launch.
She will meet with: Prime Minister Kishida of Japan, Prime Minister Han of the Republic of Korea, Prime Minister Albanese of Australia, Prime Minister of Ardern of New Zealand, and Prime Minister Trudeau of Canada.



November 18, 202212:57 ICT

Travel pool report #7 - quotes from meeting
In brief remarks to the press, Harris said she called the missile launch by North Korea a "brazen violation of multiple UN security violations," saying the countries represented by the leaders in the room "strongly condemn" the launch. She further called on North Korea "to commit to serious and sustained diplomacy." The Japanese PM said the missile launches of late were occurring with "unprecedented high frequency." "There is the possibly that North Korea will launch further missiles," he warned. Australia's PM said his county is "ready to be part of a global response to this." After each leader spoke, press was ushered out and Harris did not answer questions shouted at her. Full transcript on otter (please check the audio before quoting the transcript) is here: https://otter.ai/u/jbbTcornv8Jcu91pHspmIbwOvzg



November 18, 202213:46 ICT

Travel pool report #7a - more quotes
Here are additional quotes from the other leaders not quoted in the previous pool report:
Korean PM Han: "I'd like to emphasize that such illegal activities by DPRK will never be tolerated and international community must unite to respond in a resolute manner."
Canadian PM Trudeau: "Canada continues its participation in joint military operations in the radiant region, including its Operation NEON to enforce the UN sanctions, and we continue to stand strong with all of our North Pacific allies and all allies in the region to ensure that North Korea ceases its irresponsible threats to not just regional peace and stability but global peace and stability."
New Zealand PM Ardern: "I do want to particularly acknowledge the anxiety, the deep concern, the security threat… that increasing use of missiles poses to Japan and South Korea."
(If you had issues accessing the Otter, please try again and it should work for all now.)



November 18, 202213:49 ICT

Travel pool report #8- rolling
At 1:43 p.m., the motorcade departed the convention center for the Athenee Hotel where the Vice President will deliver remarks at APEC CEO Summit. That speech will be pooled.



November 18, 202213:02 ICT

CORRECTION: Travel pool report #8 - Vietnam
On background from a WH official:
Today, before the APEC Leaders Retreat, the Vice President met briefly with President Phuc of Vietnam.



November 18, 202213:49 ICT

Travel pool report #9 - rolling
At 1:43 p.m., the motorcade departed the convention center for the Athenee Hotel where the Vice President will deliver remarks at APEC CEO Summit. That speech will be pooled.



November 18, 202214:09 ICT

Travel pool report #10 - arrival
The pool arrived at the Athenee Hotel after a short drive. Your pooler did not see Harris depart the convention center or arrive at the hotel. The pool was brought into a conference room where a large audience was already seated. Behind a stage, a tall screen read "APEC CEO SUMMIT THAILAND 2022," and on either side, two additional screens listed organizers and sponsors. The speech will be live streamed here:https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/.



November 18, 202214:36 ICT

Travel pool report #11 - speech
As Harris began her speech, a loud crash of what sounded like dishes from the back of the room caught her attention. "That's either auspicious or not" she said to laughs from the audience. In her speech (which was live streamed and will therefore not be Ottered), Harris emphasized the U.S. participation on the Indo-Pacific, including its economic role and other partnerships, such as the Quad Vaccine Partnership to and assist countries in the Indo-Pacific with vaccination efforts against COVID-19. She also talked about the U.S. role in improving supply chain and addressing climate change.
Some quotes:
"The United States is a proud Pacific power, and we have a vital interest in promoting a region that is open, interconnected, prosperous, secure, and resilient. In the nearly two years since President Joe Biden and I took office, we have strengthened our alliances and partnerships throughout the Indo-Pacific. We have reinforced our defense and deterrence commitments, as well as our security presence, a longstanding security presence that has enabled the region to develop and prosper for more than 70 years."
"The Biden-Harris Administration has also joined with allies and partners to uphold international rules and norms. And importantly, our Administration has made significant progress on an ambitious and affirmative economic agenda in the region. One that has already delivered results for individuals, for communities and for entire economies. Our message is clear:The United States has an enduring economic commitment to the Indo-Pacific, one that is measured not in years, but in decades, and generations. And there is no better economic partner for this region than the United States of America. The Biden-Harris Administration has proved this, again and again, through our actions, our investments, and the principles that we stand for each and every day. Under our Administration, the United States is more engaged with the Indo-Pacific than we have ever been. We have infused new energy and leadership into our unrivaled network of global alliances and partnerships."
"During our host year, we will build on the strong foundation Thailand set for sustainable economic growth. And to that end, we look forward to partnering with all of you here through the next several months."
"In a further demonstration of our enduring economic commitment, the Biden-Harris Administration is pioneering new models of economic cooperation, that will strengthen our economic footprint in the long-term. For example, in Tokyo earlier this year, President Biden launched the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework, also known as IPEF. A community of economies, representing 40% of global GDP, dedicated to equitable growth, and high environmental and labor standards."
"Our enduring economic commitment also includes a commitment to strengthen our partnership with the private sector. And as we build new models of cooperation, you members of the private sector, are integral to our success. A key example is, the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment. With the G7, we intend to mobilize $600 Billion in infrastructure investment in the developing world that will be high-standard, transparent, climate-friendly, and does not leave countries with insurmountable debt. And we are already making good on these ambitious commitments."
"I believe the private sector will play a vital role in all of this. In order to bridge the infrastructure gap in the Indo-Pacific we need your expertise, your capital, and your innovation, especially when it comes to clean energy and digital infrastructure. Simply put, governments cannot do this alone."
"As a strong partner to the economies and companies of the Indo-Pacific, America's approach to these relationships is based on collaboration, sustainability, transparency and fairness. Through all of our efforts, we will continue to uphold and strengthen international economic rules and norms that protect a free market and create predictability and stability, which is essential to: protect companies from arbitrary interference, protect nations from economic coercion and protect workers' rights. In addition, we stand against market distortions and unfair competitive advantages. And we prioritize inclusivity. We also know that economies will reach their full potential when all segments of a society can fully participate."
"The United States adheres to these values and these principles not only because we believe it is the right thing to do, but because it makes economic sense."
"In addition, regarding climate change, and existential crisis for us all the United States is doing in our part and leading with action. Our administration recently made the largest climate investment in our history through the Inflation Reduction Act."
"All of this to say, the United States is here to stay. Strengthening our economic relationships in the region and partnering with the private sector is a top priority for the United States, and a bipartisan one. As we go forward together, the companies and economies in this region will find a United States that brings immense opportunities for growth. A United States that will uphold the rules of the road. And a United States that that will help build prosperity for everyone."



November 18, 202215:40 ICT

Travel pool report #12 - hotel
The pool arrived back at the hotel at 2:35 p.m.



November 18, 202221:08 ICT

Travel pool report #13 - Palace visit
On Background form a White House OfficialThis evening, Vice President Harris and the Second Gentleman attended an audience with His Majesty King Maha Vajiralongkorn Phra Vajiraklaochaoyuhua, Her Majesty Queen Suthida Bajrasudhabimalalakshana, and her Royal Highness Princess Sirivannavari Nariratana Rajakanya at the Chakri Maha Prasat Hall in the Grand Palace.




  