
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Robert C. Cresanti, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology. Mr. Cresanti currently serves as Vice President of Public Policy at the Business Software Alliance. Prior to this, he was Senior Vice President and General Counsel for the Information Technology Association of America. Earlier in his career, he served as Staff Director for the Senate Special Committee on the Year 2000 Technology Problem. He was also Staff Director for the Subcommittee on Financial Services and Technology for the Senate Banking Committee. Mr. Cresanti received his bachelor's degree from Austin College and his JD from Baylor University.
The President intends to nominate Uttam Dhillon, of California, to be Director of the Office of Counternarcotics Enforcement at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Dhillon currently serves as Associate Deputy Attorney General for the Department of Justice. He previously served as Majority Chief Counsel and Deputy Staff Director for the House Select Committee on Homeland Security. Additionally, Mr. Dhillon served as Senior Investigative Counsel and Counsel to the Vice Chairman for the House Committee on Government Reform and Oversight. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant United States Attorney for the U.S. Attorney's Office in the Central District of California. Mr. Dhillon received his bachelor's degree from California State University at Sacramento and his master's degree from the University of California at San Diego. He received his JD from Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of California, Berkeley.
The President intends to nominate David M. Spooner, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Import Administration). Mr. Spooner currently serves as Textile Negotiator for the Office of the United States Trade Representative, where he previously served as Transition Coordinator. Prior to this, Mr. Spooner was the Administrative Assistant, Press Secretary and Legislative Director for Representative Sue Myrick. He also served as an Associate for the House Committee on Rules, as well as Communications Director for the House Committee on Agriculture. Earlier in his career, he served as Legal Counsel for Representative Wes Cooley. Mr. Spooner received his bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia and his JD from the College of William and Mary.
  