
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five people to serve as United States Attorneys, his intention to nominate one individual and his intention to designate one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate James B. Comey to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York. Comey is currently an Assistant U.S. Attorney in Richmond, Virginia. He was a Partner with McGuire Woods from 1993 to 1996, an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York from 1983 to 1993, and an Associate at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher from 1986 to 1987. He received a Bachelor's degree from the College of William and Mary and a J.D. from University of Chicago Law School.
The President intends to nominate Harry E. Cummins, III to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas. Cummins is currently a Partner with Cummins & Associates in Little Rock, Arkansas and was Chief Legal Counsel for the Governor of Arkansas from 1997 to 1998. He was a clerk to the Chief Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas and clerk to the United States Magistrate Judge for the U.S. District Court in Arkansas. Cummins received a B.S.B.A in Finance and Real Estate from the University of Arkansas, and a J.D. from the University of Arkansas, School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Michael Shelby to be a United States Attorney for the Southern District of Texas. Shelby is currently an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Arizona, Phoenix Division where he has served since 1997. He was previously an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Texas, an Attorney for Bludworth, Lippman & Herring, and an Assistant District Attorney for the Harris County District Attorney's Office in Texas. Shelby is also a Commissioned Officer in the United States Navy Reserves. He received a Bachelor's degree from Texas A&M University and a J.D. from University of Texas Law School.
The President intends to nominate Scott Abdallah to be a United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota. Abdallah is currently a State's Attorney in the Lincoln County State's Attorney's Office in Canton, South Dakota. He was previously an Associate Attorney for Moss & Barnett in Minneapolis, Minnesota. He received his Bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota and a J.D. from Hamline University School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Thomas P. Colantuono to be United States Attorney for the District of New Hampshire. Colantuono is currently a private attorney in Derry, New Hampshire, and previously served as the Executive Councilor for District 4 in New Hampshire. He served as a State Senator from 1990 to 1996, Assistant Attorney General from 1978 to 1981 and an Associate Attorney from 1976 to 1976 for Hamblett & Kerrigan, in Nashua. He received his Bachelor's degree from Duke University and a J.D. at Boston College Law School.
The President intends to nominate Tony Hammond to be a Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission for the remainder of a six year term expiring October 14, 2004. Hammond is currently the owner and managing member of T. Hammond Company, in Arlington, Virginia. He held various positions at the Republican National Committee from 1994 to 1999, including Political Director. Hammond was Director of the Missouri Republican Party from 1990 to 1994, and the Legislative Director for Congressman Gene Taylor from 1979 until 1989. He received his Bachelor's degree from Southwest Missouri State University.
The President intends to designate George A. Omas to be Chairman of the Postal Rate Commission. Omas is currently the Vice Chairman of the Postal Rate Commission and has been a member since his confirmation in 1997.
  