
    SANTA FE, NM-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson will be traveling to Iowa and California to campaign and fundraise.
New Mexico First Lady Barbara Richardson will be joining Governor Richardson on the campaign trail in Iowa over the weekend.
Legendary Indy car drivers Bobby Unser, Sr. and Al Unser, Sr. will join Governor Richardson at a "Richardson 500" rally prior to the Iowa Democratic Party Jefferson-Jackson Dinner on Saturday, along with Vietnam Veteran and pilot John Early.
Saturday, November 10th-- Central Time
When: 4:00 PM
What: "Richardson 500" Rally with Governor Bill Richardson and racing legends Bobby Unser, Sr. and Al Unser, Sr.; Special Guests First Lady Barbara Richardson and John Early
Where: Quality Inn and Suites, Ballroom, 929 3rd Street, Des Moines, IA
When: Doors open at 7:00 PM; Governor Richardson speaks at 8:36 PM
What: Iowa Democratic Party Jefferson-Jackson Dinner
Where: Veterans Memorial Auditorium, 833 5th Avenue, Des Moines, IA
Sunday, November 11th-- Central Time
When: 12:30 PM
What: Lyon County Presidential Job Interview
Where: Rock Rapids Volunteer Fire Department, 102 South Green Street, Rock Rapids, IA
When: 2:45 PM
What: O'Brien County Presidential Job Interview
Where: Community Building, 215 1st Street SE, Primghar, IA
When: 5:15 PM
What: Five-County Democratic Rally
Where: Wild Rose Casino and Resort, 777 Main Street, Emmetsburg, IA
Monday, November 12th-- Central Time
When: All Day
What: Dubuque Campaign Events, TBD
Where: Dubuque, IA
Tuesday, November 13th-- Pacific Time
When: Evening
What: Fundraising
Where: California
Below are the bios of Bobby Unser, Sr., Al Unser, Sr., and John Early:
Three-time Indy Winner Bobby Unser, Sr.
Three might be Bobby's magic number. A three-time Indy winner and the third son of Jerry and Mary Unser, Robert William "Bobby" Unser, Sr. began his distinguished racing career driving his father's modified stock cars at the age of 15. By the time he was 18 years old, Bobby was already winning races and championships.
Bobby was the undisputed king of the Pike's Peak Hill Climb, winning the championship 13 times. At Indianapolis, he was the first among this racing dynasty to win this premier race with his victory in 1968. He would go on to win in 1975 and again in 1981. He had 35 Indy Car wins and was the first to go 190 miles per hour at Indianapolis Raceway.
An accomplished Sprint Car driver, another form of racing he pursued successfully for years, Unser's Indy Car career began in 1962. He spent three years driving Novi-engined cars for Andy Granatelli before switching to Bob Willke's team for a four-year period from 1966-70. Bobby was a 2-time USAC-CART national champion (1968, 1974) and ranks 5th on the All-Time CART list with his 35 career wins.
He retired in 1981 but continued to keep his hand in Indy Cars and at Pike's Peak-- which he won again in 1986. Honored in 1990, Bobby was an Inaugural Inductee into the International Motorsports Hall of Fame. Bobby published a book in 2003, "Winners are Driven: A Champions Guide to Business and Life."
Bobby is the father of four children, Bobby Jr., Cindy, Robby, and Jeri. Now living in New Mexico, Bobby and his brother Al proudly opened the Unser Racing Museum in Albuquerque in September of 2005. This 13,000 square foot facility showcases the four generations of the Unser family's contributions to racing.
Four-time Indy Winner Al Unser, Sr.
Alfred Unser, Sr. holds the distinction of being one of only three drivers who have won the Indianapolis 500 four times. He is also in elite company as one of three Indy drivers who have won on paved ovals, road courses, and dirt tracks in a single season, having done it three times in a row (1968-70).
The youngest brother from the famous racing Unser family, "Big Al" posted 39 wins, grabbed 27 poles, and won well over $6 million on the Indy car circuit before he retired in 1992. He first drove Modified roadsters in 1957 in Albuquerque at the age of 18. He also raced the Pike's Peak Hill Climb for the first time in 1960, finishing second to his brother Bobby.
Unser made his Indy car debut at Milwaukee in 1964, and later that year won the Pike's Peak Hill Climb, halting his brother's six-year winning streak. He also raced in sprints and midgets. Al also raced USAC stocks and was named Rookie of the Year and established himself in 1968, winning five races in a row and grabbing five poles.
Al earned the first of his four Indy car championships in 1970, beating his brother Bobby. Unser won 10 races, including the Indy 500 and was named "Driver of the Year." In 1971, Al had a repeat win at Indy. In 1977, he moved to second in Indy-car points and won the IROC championship. Unser swept the "Triple Crown" events of Indy, Pocono, and Ontario in 1978 and also repeated his IROC championship.
Joining Penske Racing in 1983, Unser posted 10 top-five finishes and claimed his second PPG championship. Two years later, he won his third title by one point over his son Al Jr. In 1987, Al Sr. became the oldest Indy champion in a surprise manner when he replaced the injured Danny Ongias.
Al retired from racing in 1994 with 39 career wins, eight 500-mile victories, and ranked third on the all-time Indy Car Victory List. To cap off his stellar career, Al was inducted into the International Motorsports Hall of Fame.
Al is the father of three children, Mary, Debra, and Al Jr. Now living in New Mexico, he and his brother Bobby proudly opened the Unser Racing Museum in Albuquerque in September of 2005. This 13,000 square foot facility showcases the four generations of the Unser family's contributions to racing.
Vietnam Veteran and Pilot John Early
Born in January 1945 to John and Mildred Early, John Early was active in the Boy Scouts and the Civil Air Patrol, feeding his early ambition to pursue a career in aviation.
Early joined the U.S. Army in 1963, where he volunteered for, and passed selection for, the United States Army Special Forces, also known as the "Green Berets." After serving for twelve years in the Special Forces, including three and a half tours in Vietnam as an enlisted soldier and officer, Early received a direct commission to Lieutenant and completed his bachelor's degree in political science and communications from Southern Illinois University. During his Army career, he was decorated on several occasions for his actions under fire and was wounded four times.
After his service in the Army, Early spent five years in Africa, serving in the Rhodesian Air Force and Army as a pilot and parachute instructor and as commander of an anti-terrorist unit in the Rhodesian Army.
Upon returning to the United States, Early finished graduate school at the University of South Carolina and started a small skydiving business in New Mexico that evolved into a company that supplied aircraft and technical advice to motion picture companies. The company's film credits include "Red Dawn," "Uncommon Valor," and the "Rambo" series of films.
In 1989, Early embarked on a career as a pilot that began with airlines in the United States and continued with a number of companies in Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and various parts of Africa. Early worked for several years as a "bush pilot" on contracts with the United Nations and The International Committee of the Red Cross in Kenya, Somalia, Sudan, Rwanda, the Congo, and several other African nations. It was during this time that Early was hijacked and held hostage by a rebel group while managing a medical evacuation program for the Red Cross in southern Sudan. After being extricated from that "interesting" adventure by Governor Richardson, Early has continued in aviation, except for a short hiatus working with the Department of Military Affairs and the New Mexico National Guard.
Early currently is flying for a firm that does radar mapping worldwide.
  