
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Phyllis L. Bayer of Mississippi to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Installations, Energy, and the Environment. Ms. Bayer most recently served as Chief of Staff in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness where she managed policy development to shape and affect the readiness of the 2.4 million members of the U.S. Armed Forces. Ms. Bayer previously served as program manager in the Office of the Deputy Chief Management Officer, executive director of the Defense Business Board, and senior policy analyst for OSD Test and Evaluation. Ms. Bayer is a recipient of the Meritorious Civilian Service Award from the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy Recognition Medallion, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense Exceptional Civilian Service Award. She is a graduate of the National Defense University, Central Michigan University, University of Southern Mississippi, and the University of Southern Mississippi. Ms. Bayer is married to Michael J. Bayer and they reside in Georgetown, Washington, D.C.
Erik Bethel of Florida to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Mr. Bethel has more than 20 years of investment banking, private equity, and M&A experience in emerging markets. Prior to joining the Trump Administration, Mr. Bethel held positions at Franklin Templeton, JPMorgan, and Morgan Stanley, among others. Mr. Bethel has lived and worked in both Latin America and Asia and speaks English, Spanish, Portuguese, and Mandarin. He earned an M.B.A. degree from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, and a B.S. in economics and political science from the United States Naval Academy, Annapolis.
David T. Fischer of Michigan to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco. Mr. Fischer is the Chairman, CEO, and principal owner of The Suburban Collection, one of the largest privately held automotive dealership groups in the United States. Mr. Fischer provides philanthropy to many charities and has joined the boards of numerous academic, cultural, and social welfare institutions and foundations. He has been a Member of the Judicial Tenure Commission in Detroit since 2012. Mr. Fischer earned a B.A. at Parsons College.
Joseph E. Macmanus of New York to be Ambassador Extraordinary & Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Colombia. Mr. Macmanus, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1986. He is currently Adviser to the Secretary of State, a position he undertook in June 2017. Previously, he was Senior Adviser to the Secretary of State and Executive Secretary of the Department of State from 2014-2017. A former Ambassador, Mr. Macmanus has been a senior aide to four Secretaries of State. He has served at five U.S. Missions overseas. Mr. Macmanus earned a B.A. at the University of Notre Dame and a M.L.S. at the State University of New York at Buffalo. He speaks Spanish, French, and Polish.
Judy Lynn Shelton of Virginia to be United States Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Ms. Shelton has testified before Congress on numerous occasions as an expert witness on international finance, banking, and monetary issues. A former Senior Research Fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University, she is the author of two books on global economic developments. Ms. Shelton currently serves as Chairman of the National Endowment for Democracy and is a Senior Fellow at the Atlas Network. She holds an M.B.A. and a Ph.D. degree in business administration specializing in finance and international economics from the University of Utah. She received a postdoctoral fellowship from the Hoover Institution through the National Fellows program.
Barbara Stewart of Illinois to be Chief Executive Officer for the Corporation of National Community Service. Ms. Stewart currently works with non-profit organizations to strengthen their external relations efforts. She co-founded the Bowe-Stewart Foundation. Ms. Stewart retired from JPMorgan Chase as senior vice president in the firm's Global Government Relations Group, where she was responsible for strategy development, personnel, budget and operations management. Previously, she served in policy and management roles for an Illinois Governor and two Lt. Governors, and led the Chicago public affairs practice of Fleishman-Hillard. Ms. Stewart earned a B.A. and M.B.A. from Northwestern University. She serves as Trustee at the Adler Planetarium and the Civic Federation of Chicago, and on the Boards of Christopher House, the Baltimore Urban Debate League, and the Center for Urban Families.
James Edwin Williams of Utah to be the Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Labor. Mr. Williams most recently served as general counsel of Liquidity Services, Inc., where he led the legal aspects of the company's public offering of shares on Nasdaq, acquisitions and worldwide expansion. Mr. Williams counseled the board and executive team on all governance, legal, and risk management matters. Mr. Williams previously served as the General Counsel of Acterna Corporation, a former telecommunications equipment manufacturer. He is a 2014 recipient of the CXO of the year, from the Smart CEO Executive Management Awards. Mr. Williams is a graduate of Brown University, and the University of Chicago Law School.
The following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall and Stewart L. Udall Foundation:

Tadd M. Johnson of Minnesota for the remainder of a 6-year term expiring October 6, 2022.
Lisa Johnson-Billy of Oklahoma for the remainder of a 6-year term expiring June 25, 2018 and an additional term expiring August 25, 2024.

-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Jeffrey Anderson to the Department of Justice
Jeffrey H. Anderson of Virginia to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics, Department of Justice. Mr. Anderson is a constitutional scholar and is a leader in formulating domestic policy proposals. Mr. Anderson served as a professor at the U.S. Air Force Academy, where he won the USAFA Political Science Department's highest honors for upper-division teaching and for research and writing (for "Learning from the Great Council of Revision Debate"). As the 2017 Project's Executive Director and a Hudson Institute Senior Fellow, Mr. Anderson advanced creative proposals, including Main Street-oriented health-care, tax, and immigration reform. He was Director of the Office of Health Reform at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in 2017, leading efforts to reduce insurance premiums, regulatory burdens, and opioid abuse. Mr. Anderson co-created the Anderson and Hester Computer Rankings, which were part of the BCS formula to determine college football's annual national championship matchup. Mr. Anderson received a Ph.D. in political science from Claremont Graduate University
  