
    Since the Debate Booker Raises Over $800,000, Has First and Second-Best Online Fundraising Days of Campaign
Las Vegas, NV -- In the 24 hours following Cory Booker's standout performance on the Democratic debate stage in Atlanta, Cory for Nevada confirmed over twenty new precinct captains -- the latest sign of the campaign's growing ground game and grassroots momentum. Since Cory's closing statement at the debate, Cory 2020 has raised over $800,000, marking a sharp uptick in fundraising support.
"Since Cory's debate performance, we've seen an outpouring of support from Nevadans across the state," said Cory 2020 Nevada State Director Phil Kim. "Nevada is a caucus state and that means organizing at the grassroots level. These new precinct captains are committed and trained voices that will ensure Cory's message of uniting people to get things done for those who have been left out and behind will be heard by thousands of caucus goers."
"Wednesday night demonstrated to me that Cory has what it takes to unite our party and lead our country. He showed us that you can lead with compassion and conviction and I'm proud to take my support to the next level and commit to being a precinct captain for the caucus," said Cat Brewer. 
The full list of Nevadans announcing their commitment to becoming precinct captains for Cory Booker today include:
Kenneth Babb Barbara Binder Rayna Booker Cat Brewer Becky Cohen Zanna Curry Jeremy Gonzales Kelley Hopkins Katie Lim Ryan McConnell Karen Meron Barbara Miller Nikki Ryan Josh Schwartz Brian Seutz Laura Seutz Sakina Turner Dana White Michael Williams Traci Wilson Yonas Woldu
Since launching his campaign, Cory Booker has visited the state nine times as a candidate and held over two dozen events in both northern and southern Nevada, including Boulder City and Minden, where he became the first candidate to visit rural Nevada and was one of the first candidates to participate in a virtual meet and greet with over 200 rural Nevadans. Booker has built a strong operation in Nevada with experienced state staff with deep community roots. Booker has earned the endorsement of over 70 community leaders including the former president of Reno-Sparks NAACP, Nevada Young Dems President, AAPI leaders, immigration activists and local grassroots volunteers.
  