
    THE PRESIDENT. Mr. Carter and myself have had about an hour's discussion. I reemphasized to Governor Carter that my administration would cooperate 100 percent in making certain that the transition from my administration to his administration would be carried out in the best interests of the American people. That is my obligation and the obligation of those that work with me, because we are all interested in what is best for the United States. It is my judgment that the transition is working smoothly, but we will continue to maximize our efforts to continue that. And it has been a real pleasure and a privilege for Mrs. Ford and myself to have Governor Carter and Mrs. Carter as our guests on this occasion.
PRESIDENT-ELECT CARTER. Thank you, Mr. President. There cannot have been a better demonstration of unity and friendship and good will than has been shown to me by President Ford since the election. I believe that this year's debates and the election itself has reached a conclusion which leaves our Nation unified. And I've expressed many times in the last few weeks my deep appreciation to President Ford for the gracious way in which he has welcomed me to meet with his heads of departments to teach me about the future responsibilities which I will assume.
It's very reassuring to me, and I hope to the Nation and to other nations in the world, to realize that the transition period will be handled in a way that's conducive to unity, to harnessing the tremendous economic and political and human strength of our country. And I believe that the transition will be one which will be conducive to peace in our own Nation and peace around the world.
And I'd like to again express my thanks to President Ford and to Mrs. Ford for being so good to us. My wife and Mrs. Ford had a chance to visit this afternoon. Rosalynn has gone back to Georgia, and I will be staying up here until tomorrow. But I do thank you again, President Ford, for making it possible for me to learn in this way and for being so hospitable to me and my wife.
  