
    Handily defeats GOP competitors Cain, Romney and Gingrich in online and in-person contest limited to Illinois residents
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul earned another straw poll victory tonight, this time winning 52 percent of 3,649 votes cast in an Illinois statewide Republican contest held online and in-person.
Dr. Paul handily beat Herman Cain, Mitt Romney, and Newt Gingrich, who garnered 18, 14, and 9 percent of the votes, respectively. Rick Perry earned a mere 2.5 percent of the vote, John Huntsman 1.5 percent, Rick Santorum 1.2 percent, followed by Michele Bachmann with just 1.1 percent.
"This straw poll victory demonstrates the groundswell of support for Ron Paul and his winning message, as well as the organizational muscle presidential candidates require," said Scott Davis, Illinois State Chair for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential campaign. "Straw poll participants were Illinois residents who support the Illinois Republican Party and Ron Paul for the presidency, so this contest is relevant and representative."
The 2012 Illinois Republican Pre-Presidential Straw Poll was the first mainly online poll of its kind. The one-week poll began on 9:00 a.m. CT Saturday, October 29th and concluded tonight, November 5th, at 7:00 p.m. CT. In order to participate, voters were required to be Illinois residents and to make a minimum $5 contribution benefiting the Illinois Republican Party. The poll was taken at http://www.illinoisstrawpoll..
Today throughout Illinois there also were a number of Republican activities where voters cast their vote in person instead of online. U.S. Senator Mark Kirk (R) was among the Republican luminaries traveling around to different county and township events today as localities hosted in-person voting opportunities. Ron Paul was declared the winner at the Republican Party headquarters in Downtown Chicago at an event hosted by Eloise Gerson, 42nd Ward Republican Committeeman and Chicago GOP Chairwoman. Senator Kirk was also in attendance.
Complete straw poll results are as follows:
Paul 52%
Cain 18%
Romney 14%
Gingrich 9%
Perry 2.5%
Huntsman 1.5%
Santorum 1.2%
Bachmann 1.1%
  