
    Chicago, IL - The Obama campaign will kick off Women for Obama Leadership committees in several key February 5th states today with organizing events and a nationwide conference call hosted by Michelle Obama. The state committees will join similar structures in Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada and South Carolina set up to lead a national network of 20,000 women who are organizing on behalf of Barack Obama. The campaign also introduced a new video focused on women that will be shown at the kickoff events. The video can be viewed at my.barackobama.com/page/invite/wfodoc20071120.
"What I am hearing from women across the country is that they are looking for a leader who will put them first, who will remember that balancing work and family is a challenge for millions. When our leaders forget that fact we lose focus on what is important," said Barack Obama. "The values I learned as the son of a single mother, as the grandson of a strong Midwestern woman and from my wife and two daughters are a not only a part of who I am, but a part of what keeps me fighting for change in this country."
"Every woman I know, regardless of race, education, income and background, is struggling to keep her head above water. We have spent the last decade talking a good game about family values, but I haven't seen much evidence that we actually value women or families. But we have a real opportunity in this election to create major change - to bring everyone to the table like never before - to get women and families the support they need to not only survive but thrive," said Michelle Obama.
Since the launch of Women for Obama in April, the group has played a key role in Barack Obama's campaign for President. By focusing on fundraising, grassroots and online organizing, Women for Obama has built a network of women who will play an instrumental role in sending Barack Obama to the White House.
February 5th state WFO launches and organizing events will include: Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Georgia, Idaho, Missouri, Minnesota and New Jersey.
  