
    Today, Biden for President launched a new GOTV video featuring an all-star cast of Asian American and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) who have assembled to urge the AAPI community to vote in the final few days before November 3. The 60-second video, titled "When We Vote, We Win" — taken from the words of Kamala Harris highlighted at the end of the clip — aims to inspire the AAPI community to support Joe Biden in building a better America while ushering in representation of historical significance. If elected as Vice President, Senator Harris will hold the highest elected office of any Asian American in history.

Watch the full video HERE.
"Representation matters and in this election, we have an opportunity to be represented at the highest level. Joe will ensure that our voices are heard at all levels, starting with Kamala's in the office of the Vice President. And we're excited that AAPIs can be the margin of victory in making that happen," said Dennis Cheng, Biden for President Senior Advisor of External Outreach, who envisioned and championed the video into creation.
The video starts with the narration of legendary television journalist Connie Chung, who became the first Asian American woman to anchor a major network news channel and was one of the few recognizable AAPI faces by the American public alongside actor and activist George Takei. Both Chung and Takei join other AAPI trailblazers such as Mindy Kaling, Lucy Liu, Padma Lakshmi, Sandra Oh, Margaret Cho, Lou Diamond Phillips, and Michelle Kwan to say: "It's going to take all of us, to really use our voices...Between now and election day, let's come together and vote for a better America."
Also noteworthy are voices at the end of the video that exclaim "Go Joe!" in nine different AAPI languages recorded by representatives from some of the AAPIs for Biden affinity groups. The AAPIs for Biden coalition includes: AAPI Staffers for Biden, AAPI Veterans and Military Families for Biden, Chinese Americans for Biden, Filipino Americans for Biden, Hmong Americans for Biden, Japanese Americans for Biden, Korean Americans for Biden, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders for Biden, Queer AAPIs for Biden, South Asians for Biden, Taiwanese Americans for Biden, Thai Americans for Biden, Vietnamese Americans for Biden, and Young AAPIs for Biden.
"The campaign has built the broadest, most diverse, and most inclusive coalition ever seen. We're extremely proud of our micro-targeted messaging and individualized outreach to the AAPI community, so that we not only feel represented in the campaign, but also empowered and inspired to be a part of it," said Cheng.
Biden for President has made a concerted effort to inform, mobilize and empower the AAPI community through unique virtual events, in-language phone banks, translated information and materials in 20 languages, as well as in-language ads on television, digital, radio, and print. The campaign also engaged directly with local ethnic media to reach some of the AAPI voters who may be more difficult to reach through traditional voter outreach efforts. And over the first two weeks in October, some of the campaign's top surrogates joined the AAPIs Assemble Virtual Bus Tour, which made 12 stops in 12 key states, reaching AAPI voters from all backgrounds where they are.
This latest video is the culmination of the campaign's unprecedented efforts to galvanize the AAPI community and to highlight the importance of the AAPI vote as the margin of victory in this election. Stars, some speaking out for this first time in a presidential election, have joined forces to deliver a clear message: They come from all different walks of life, with distinct languages, culture and heritage, but share the same home, hopes, and dreams for a better future -- and that when AAPIs vote for Joe and Kamala, we all win.
The full star-studded cast features 35 celebrities representing at least 7 different AAPI ethnic groups (Indian, Filipino, Chinese, Korean, Japanese, Pakistani, Pacific Islander), and includes: Aasif Mandvi, Anna Akana, Ashley Park, BD Wong, Connie Chung, Conrad Ricamora, Daniel Dae Kim, Darren Criss, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson, George Takei, Harry Shum, Jr., Hudson Yang, Khizr Khan, Kumail Nanjiani, Lauren Tom, Lou Diamond Phillips, Lucy Liu, Maia and Alex Shibutani, Manish Dayal, Margaret Cho, Michelle Kwan, Mindy Kaling, Ming-Na Wen, Nik Dodani, Nikki SooHoo, Padma Lakshmi, Parvesh Cheena, Ravi Patel, Rosalind Chao, Sakina Jaffrey, Sandra Oh, Sendhil Ramamurthy, Tamlyn Tomita, Tia Carrere, and Yo-Yo Ma.
  