
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate six individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Jaymie Alan Durnan, of New Hampshire, to be Assistant Secretary of the Army (Installations and Environment). He currently serves as Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense. A member of the United States Navy from 1975 until 1990, Mr. Durnan previously served as Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary of Defense. Prior to this position he served as a Principal with Radius Capital Partners in Marblehead, Massachusetts. Earlier, Mr. Durnan served as Senior Vice President and Special Counsel to the Chairman for MacAndrews & Forbes Holdings, Inc. He is a graduate of the United States Naval Academy. He went on to earn his master's degree and J.D. from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Lawrence Thomas Di Rita, of Michigan, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs). He currently serves as Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense. Mr. Di Rita previously served as Chief of Staff and Legislative Director for Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison. From 1980 until 1993, he served in the United States Navy. Mr. Di Rita is a graduate of the United States Naval Academy, and earned his master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate Robert Hurley McKinney, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring October 27, 2004.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation:
The President intends to nominate Sanford Gottesman, of Texas (Public), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 17, 2005.
The President intends to nominate Diane M. Ruebling, of California (Public), for a three-year term expiring December 17, 2005.
The President intends to nominate C. William Swank, of Ohio (Public), for a three-year term expiring December 17, 2005.
  