
    Trump Campaign Continues to Expand With Two Hires in North Carolina
(New York, NY) November 19th, 2015 - Donald J. Trump is continuing to expand his operation across the country announcing two additional hires based in North Carolina. Earl Phillip will serve as State Director and Taylor Playforth will serve as Deputy State Director.
Mr. Trump stated, "It is great to announce the additions of Earl and Taylor who will be valuable members of our operation in North Carolina, where I have been leading in every poll for many months. I look forward to being back in North Carolina soon as I continue to share my vision to Make America Great Again!"
Earl Phillip previously served as the North Carolina African American State Director for the Republican National Committee (RNC), Director of The Frederick Douglass Foundation in the Greater Charlotte Area, Chairman of National Veterans for Republicans Association and Chairman of National Minority Conservative Convention. Earl also consulted for the Director of Minority Engagement for the NCGOP. He is the President and owner of Innovative Consulting Services and the current Director of North Carolina Black Engagement.
Earl Phillip said, "North Carolina is a very strong Republican State that knows and understands upfront, common-sense leadership. Mr. Trump exudes that leadership. I will lead the campaign's effort here in North Carolina to further continue that leadership."
Taylor joins the campaign as a Raleigh based Republican activist who previously worked with the RNC on voter registration efforts, organized volunteers across the state and lead Republican leadership courses with a focus on galvanizing grassroots support for the North Carolina Republican Party. He has also worked as the Regional Field Director for RNC Deployment.
Taylor Playforth added, "It is truly a privilege to be working alongside Mr. Trump, supporting his vision to Make America Great Again, one that I feel resonates strongly among North Carolina voters. Mr. Trump's record of success and strong leadership is unmatched in this election. I look forward to working with the staff and volunteers here in North Carolina, to make sure his message is heard by the great people of our state."
Mr. Trump has led all local North Carolina Polls by a significant margin since June and has visited North Carolina on several occasions over the past few months. He will return in December.
  