
    Urges 'Super Committee' to make serious cuts and avoid new taxes, calls for Congressional pay cut
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul recently displayed uncommon leadership sorely needed in Washington through a willingness to unite Congressional reformers on both sides of the aisle in defense of the American taxpayer.Before heading to Iowa, Minnesota, and North Dakota for hard campaigning, Representative Paul showed why he is the only candidate who can unite people and bring our country authentic change.
Paul joined with a coalition of Republicans and Blue Dog Democrats to call for deep and meaningful spending cuts from the Joint Select Committee on Deficit Reduction (or "Super Committee") that is charged with presenting the full Congress with deficit reduction options, reflecting Paul's commitment to working in a bipartisan manner to reduce the burden imposed on the American people by spending and taxes.
Paul also joined with House conservatives and Republican Study Committee (RSC) Chairman Rep. Jim Jordan (OH-4) in pledging to fight any attempt by the Super Committee to raise taxes. He co-signed a letter urging the Super Committee to avoid deficit-reduction actions that balance the federal budget on the backs of the American taxpayer.
Dr. Paul also worked with Rep. Gabrielle Giffords (AZ-8) and others to assemble members from across the political spectrum to call for a cut in Congressional pay, sending Americans a message that Washington too must curtail its spending as it requests belt-tightening from the public. The letter to the Super Committee also notes that Congress last cut its own pay in 1933, during the Great Depression.
Paul's own ambitious 'Plan to Restore America,' recently cited by Iowa Governor Terry Branstad (R) as "the boldest plan to reduce the federal deficit," proposes that President Paul will take a salary of $39,336, approximately equal to the median personal income of the American worker.
"Ron Paul is the most conservative member of Congress, yet he understands how best to work with coalitions and bring people together to solve problems. He can unite Washington without sacrificing one ounce of principle," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
  