
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




November 6, 202211:08 CST

FLOTUS travel pool #1 - first church stop 
Good morning from Houston where FLOTUS has several stops today ahead of Tuesday's election. It's 78 degrees and partly cloudy.
Motorcade arrived at the first stop, Good Hope Missionary Baptist Church, at 10:09 am.
FLOTUS wearing a white dress with a floral pattern. She took a spot in a front pew. The choir was singing when Dr. Biden entered the church.
Rev. Cofield, in his opening remarks, gave thanks for the Houston Astros victory in the World Series. FLOTUS clapped politely as the congregation cheered.
In his introduction the Rev. called FLOTUS an evangelist "because there's some folks here at church that don't come to church any other time."
The pews are filled. Congregation stood and clapped when Dr. Biden stood to talk.
She talked about Beau Biden's brain cancer diagnosis and how it shook her faith:
"In 2015 my faith was shaken for over a year."
"I never gave up hope - as a mother you can't."
Her voice shook a little when she said: "Despite what the doctor said I believed he would live in those final days. I made one last desperate prayer and it went unanswered."
More: "After Beau died, I felt betrayed…. I just couldn't go [to church]. I couldn't even pray. I wondered if I would ever feel joy again."
She recounted how, while she was at a church service with POTUS in 2019, a woman asked to be her prayer partner. "Her kindness opened up something inside of me. … In that moment, I felt for the first time that there was a path to me recovering my faith."
"In the depths of our brokenness, we can start to believe that healing ourselves will never be possible. And the truth is, we can't heal ourselves alone. But with God, all things are possible. My husband ran for President to heal this country and that's what we are doing."
She urged people to vote: "So much is at stake in this election. And with the polls closing in just two days, all of us need to make our voices heard. We must speak up on justice and democracy."
"So make a plan to get to the polls on Tuesday and help your friends and neighbors and loved ones as well. Because even if it seems small, every single vote counts."
"One vote can win an election and one election can set a new course."
Joining FLOTUS at church. (Note Judge Draper is a member of this congregation.)

Judge Lina Hidalgo
Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee (D-TX-18)
Judge Genesis Draper, Harris County Criminal Court at Law No. 12
Reverend DZ Cofield, Senior Pastor of Good Hope Missionary Baptist Church, and his wife Tori Moore-Cofield with their son and daughter in law.

Pool exited church after her remarks. FLOTUS is now listening to sermon while pool holds in van.
Here is some background on today along with today's schedule:Jill Biden to Visit Harris County to Campaign with Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo
Dr. Biden, Judge Hidalgo and other prominent local elected leaders to Encourage Democrats to Get Out The Vote on Election Day
On Sunday, November 6, Jill Biden will join Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo, local elected officials and community leaders to encourage voters to turn out and vote for Democrats up and down the ballot.
During her visit, Dr. Biden and Judge Hidalgo will join parishioners at local churches in the Third Ward to discuss the importance of voting.
Following those visits, the duo will make a stop at the Leonel Castillo Community Center for a community event with Hispanic leaders and voters. At each stop, Judge Hidalgo will highlight her successful record as County Judge and urge voters to turn out to protect democracy, truth, and decency in Harris County. She will also discuss the importance of voting for democrats in this election in order to stop the influence of far-right extremism that is gaining a foothold in the third largest county in America.
As Harris County Judge, Lina Hidalgo has overseen the response to floods, fires, hurricanes, the Winter Storm and the COVID-19 pandemic. She has worked to reduce homelessness in Harris County by 20%, invest historic amounts into early childhood education, and make record investments in public safety. From doubling the budget for the Veterans' Services Office, to instituting "Worst First" on flood recovery and more, Judge Hidalgo works every day to bring meaningful, positive change to Harris County.
At 10:15 AM, the First Lady will attend and deliver get-out-the-vote remarks at a local church in Houston, TX. This event will be open press and pooled for TV.
At 12:00 PM, the First Lady will attend and deliver get-out-the-vote remarks at a local church in Houston, TX. This event will be open press and pooled for TV.
At 12:45 PM, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at a political event with Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo in Houston, TX. This event will be open press and pooled for TV.
At 1:45 PM, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at a political finance event for Harris County Judge Lina Hidalgo in Houston, TX. This event will be covered by a print pooler only. For interested media, register for pool reports from the Office of the First Lady HERE



November 6, 202211:52 CST

FLOTUS travel pool #2 - OTR stop at restaurant
Motorcade left the Good Hope church at 11:16 am local time and made at OTR stop at This Is it Soul Food restaurant at 11:20 am.
The restaurant has giant mural reading "Vote" on its outside wall.
Dr. Biden, Rep. Sheila Jackson Lee, and Judge Lina Hidalgo are all at the restaurant.
FLOTUS, Jackson Lee and Hidalgo made the rounds to talk to customers. They asked where people were from and if they had voted. They took pictures with many people.
Many customers were wearing Astros shirts. FLOTUS looked slightly resigned as Jackson Lee celebrated the World Series win.
At one table FLOTUS asked for food recommendations.
After chatting with customers, FLOTUS, Jackson Lee and Hidalgo sat together at a table.
FLOTUS order included: fried chicken, ox tail, collard greens, and sweet tea
Pool was pulled at 11:39 am and is holding in vans while FLOTUS remains in restaurant with Jackson Lee and Hidalgo.



November 6, 202213:04 CST

FLOTUS travel pool #3 - second church stop
Motorcade left This Is it Soul Food restaurant at 11:59 am and arrived at Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church at 12:03 pm.
It is a large church. There are nearly 3,000 congregants here.
The digital screen behind the pulpit read Houston Astros World Series Champions. The screen switched slides throughout the service and included reminders to vote.
Dr. Biden was greeted with a warm round of applause. Her remarks were similar to what she discussed at the first church stop.
Her remarks on how she lost and regained her faith when Beau died were greeted with a lot of "amens" and "yes." The congregation applauded when she talked about finding God again.
FLOTUS: "Ours is a faith of action and right now is a time for action."
More: "Your voice is needed right now, choosing who leads our communities is one way that we can live out our faith."
She repeated her call for people to vote. She closed with: "We are building a nation better than ever and doing it together. So let's keep going and may the God of hope fill you with joy and peace. Amen."
At the church:

Judge Lina Hidalgo
Rep. Shelia Jackson Lee
Reverend Alexander Johnson, Wheeler Avenue Baptist Church Executive Pastor
Congressman Al Green (D-TX-09)
Commissioner Rodney Ellis
State Senator Borris Miles

At 12:21 pm the motorcade is rolling to the next stop.



November 6, 202213:42 CST

FLOTUS travel pool #4 - community center stop and FLOTUS congratulates the Astros
Motorcade arrived at the Leonel Castillo Community Center at 12:35 pm.
There's about 100 people in the room.
Dr. Biden once again pushing the get out the vote message: "We are just two days before the election and it really could come down to a handful of votes."
"What you do on Tuesday won't just decide the course for Texas … you'll help us decide the future of our country as well."
She talked about the accomplishments of the Biden administration.
"We have to use these two days to get out the vote. In only two years, Joe and the Democrats up and down the ballot have accomplished so much. Just think about it. Think about two years ago where you were. They rescued us from the chaos of the pandemic. Think about that our schools were closed. We were trying to get groceries - we were washing them off outside of our homes. Y'all remember that? That was only two years ago. They created millions of jobs."
She described the Tuesday election as "a choice between two drastically different visions for America."
"This race is going to be close. You all know that. And the only way we can win is by voting."
"That's how we're going to win - with one ballot cast: yours."
Once again there was a lot of congratulating to the Astros in their victory over the Phillies by local officials. Judge Lina Hidalgo offered a proclamation for the Astros.
Judge Hidalgo apologized to Dr. Biden halfway through her reading of proclamation.
"This so painful," Dr. Biden said. After the judge's reading Dr. Biden said: "In the spirit of unity, the Phillies congratulate the Astros."
Dr. Biden did watch the game last night in her hotel room, per the East Wing.
The Community center is located near Northside Houston and serves a predominately Hispanic population.
At the event:

Precinct 2 Commissioner Adrian Garcia
Congresswoman Sylvia Garcia (D-TX-29)
Judge Lina Hidalgo
Rep. Shelia Jackson Lee
Rep. Al Green

At 1:22 pm the motorcade is rolling to the next stop.



November 6, 202215:34 CST

FLOTUS travel pool #5 - fundraiser for Judge Hidalago
Motorcade arrived at 1:38 pm for a fundraiser at the home of Ellen Susman.
Susman is not present. Her daughter Whitney Gordon is hosting the fundraiser for Judge Lina Hidalgo.
The home is a penthouse condo with stunning views of Houston. The walls are filled with modern art. There are about 120 people here.
FLOTUS thanked Whitney for hosting the fundraiser and said she had dinner with Ellen when she was in New York last week on a campaign swing.
As she was making her remarks, talking about her childhood, she noted: "They've changed my script here. It used to say, I used to watch the Phillies growing up."
The crowd laughed. Someone called out Sorry.
Dr. Biden noted she asked adviser Anthony Bernal last night "Does a Secret Service know I scream during the game" as she didn't want them alarmed.
Note: FLOTUS overnighted in Houston last night at a hotel near the baseball stadium and watched the game in her room.
She shared the story of her and POTUS first date. She talked about how Judge Hidalgo works with the administration "to make sure that Houston can recover from disasters. I know I've been down here several times."
She said Republicans are "making it harder to vote, and you know, they're undermining our elections. They're threatening affordable health care and a woman's right to choose. They're putting Social Security and Medicare on the chopping block."
She closed with asking people to vote and to encourage friends and family to do the same.
At 2:51 pm the motorcade is rolling to the airport.



November 6, 202215:37 CST

FLOTUS travel pool #6 - airport arrival
Motorcade arrived at the airport at 3:23 pm.
Dr. Biden took photos with her police escort upon arrival to the airport.
She boarded the plane at 3:28 pm.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up to JBA shortly.
Flight time is approximately two and a half hours.



November 6, 202219:11 EST

FLOTUS travel pool #7 - back at White House
Executive One Foxtrot arrived at JBA at 7:23 pm.
Dr. Biden disembarked at 7:36 pm. She had a long coat on over her dress.
Shortly before takeoff in Houston FLOTUS came back to the press area for a brief OTR.
Motorcade left JBA at 7:38 pm arrived at the White House at 7:58 pm. Ride was uneventful and pool caught a glimpse of FLOTUS going inside.
That’s a wrap folks. Have a good night.




  