
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 26
Arthur Bienenstock, of California, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Ernest J. Moniz.
Joseph B. Dial, of Texas, to be a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the term expiring June 19, 2001 (reappointment).
James E. Hall, of Tennessee, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2002 (reappointment).
Alphonso Maldon, Jr., of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Hershel Wayne Gober.
Submitted September 30
Kathryn Linda Haydock Proffitt, of Arizona, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Malta.
William H. Twaddell, of Rhode Island, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Nigeria.
Submitted October 1
Steven J. Green, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Singapore.
Daniel Charles Kurtzer, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Arab Republic of Egypt.
Duncan T. Moore, of New York, to be an Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, vice Lionel Skipwith Johns, resigned.
Steven Karl Pifer, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ukraine.
Submitted October 3
Timothy Michael Carney, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Haiti.
Cameron R. Hume, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic and Popular Republic of Algeria.
Stanley Louis McLelland, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Jamaica.
F. Whitten Peters,
of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of the Air Force, vice Rudy de Leon.
Joseph Thomas, of New York, to be Under Secretary for Benefits of the Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Raymond John Vogel, resigned.
  