
    
  President Obama's Five Worst Lies & Exaggerations From The Second Presidential Debate

NUMBER 1: President Obama Falsely Claimed He Immediately Characterized The Attacks In Benghazi As Terrorism:
President Obama: "The Day After The Attack, Governor, I Stood In The Rose Garden, And I Told The American People And The World That We Are Going To Find Out Exactly What Happened, That This Was An Act Of Terror." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
The Washington Post's Fact Checker: "What Did Obama Say In The Rose Garden A Day After The Attack In Libya? ... He Did Not Say 'Terrorism'..." "What did Obama say in the Rose Garden a day after the attack in Libya? 'No acts of terror will ever shake the resolve of this nation,' he said. But he did not say 'terrorism'—and it took the administration days to concede that that it an 'act of terrorism' that appears unrelated to initial reports of anger at a video that defamed the prophet Muhammad." (Glenn Kessler, "Fact Check: Libya Attack," The Washington Post, 10/16/12)
Politico's Mike Allen, On President Obama's Rose Garden Remarks: "He Makes A Reference To 9/11 And He Says, Very Generally, We Will Not Let Acts Of Terror Go Unpunished." ALLEN: "There's going to be a bunch of fact checks, but just to do a fact check here. ... And I'm looking at the transcript of that White House event the day after and he started by referring to them as selfless acts, which is casted very differently than the sort of very planned action that we now have. Later toward the end, he makes a reference to 9/11 and he says, very generally, we will not let acts of terror go unpunished. So that's going to be an arguable point." (Presidential Debate Wrap-Up, Politico Live, 10/16/12)
CNN's Candy Crowley Admitted Mitt Romney "Was Right In The Main." CROWLEY: "And I think actually, because right after that, I did turn around and say but you are totally correct that they spent two weeks telling us that this was about a tape and that there was this riot outside the Benghazi consulate, which there wasn't. So he was right in the main, I just think he picked the wrong word. They're going to parse and we all know what the definition of 'is' is, but, you know, in the end, I think John's probably right." (CNN's "Debate Night In America," 10/16/12)
NUMBER 2: President Obama Repeated His False Attack About A $5 Trillion Tax Cut:
President Obama: "It Costs About $5 Trillion." OBAMA: "Look, the cost of lowering rates for everybody across the board 20 percent, along with what he also wants to do in terms of eliminating the estate tax, along what he wants to do in terms of corporates changes in the tax code -- it costs about $5 trillion." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
Obama Deputy Campaign Manager Stephanie Cutter: "Okay, Stipulated, It Won't Be Near $5 Trillion..." BURNETT: "Right. So you're saying if you lower them by 20% you get a $5 trillion tab, right?" CUTTER: "It's a $5 trillion tab."  BURNETT: "But then when you close deductions it's not going to be anywhere near $5 trillion. That's our analysis." CUTTER: "Well, okay, stipulated, it won't be near $5 trillion, but it's also not going to be the sum of $5 trillion in the loopholes that he's going to close." (CNN, 10/4/12)
FactCheck.org: "Obama Accused Romney Of Proposing A $5 Trillion Tax Cut. Not True." "Obama accused Romney of proposing a $5 trillion tax cut. Not true. Romney proposes to offset his rate cuts and promises he won't add to the deficit." (Brooks Jackson, "Dubious Denver Debate Declarations." FactCheck.org, 10/4/12)
ABC's Jon Karl, On President Obama's $5 Trillion Claim: "Mostly Fiction." KARL: "Okay, so, the big thing there, and he came back to it several times, is Governor Romney has a $5 trillion tax cut plan. I rate that mostly fiction." (ABC's "Your Voice: 2012Presidential Debates," 10/3/12)
The Associated Press: "Obama's Claim That Romney Wants To Cut Taxes By $5 Trillion Doesn't Add Up." "Obama's claim that Romney wants to cut taxes by $5 trillion doesn't add up. Presumably, Obama was talking about the effect of Romney's tax plan over 10 years, which is common in Washington. But Obama's math doesn't take into account Romney's entire plan." (Calvin Woodward, "FACT CHECK: Presidential Debate Missteps," The Associated Press, 10/3/12)
NUMBER 3: President Obama Claimed Mitt Romney's Private Sector Experience Involved Outsourcing — A Claim Repeatedly Debunked By Fact Checkers:
President Obama: "As I Already Indicated, In The Private Sector, Governor Romney's Company Invested In What Were Called Pioneers Of Outsourcing." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
FactCheck.org: "We Found No Evidence To Support The Claim That Romney — While He Was Still Running Bain Capital — Shipped American Jobs Overseas." "But after reviewing numerous corporate filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, contemporary news accounts, company histories and press releases, and the evidence offered by both the Obama and Romney campaigns, we found no evidence to support the claim that Romney — while he was still running Bain Capital — shipped American jobs overseas." (Robert Farley and Eugene Kiely, "Obama's 'Outsourcer' Overreach," FactCheck.org, 6/29/12)
The Washington Post, On An Obama Outsourcing Ad: "On Just About Every Level, This Ad Is Misleading, Unfair And Untrue..." "The Obama campaign fails to make its case. On just about every level, this ad is misleading, unfair and untrue, from the use of 'corporate raider' to its examples of alleged outsourcing.  Simply repeating the same debunked claims won't make them any more correct." (Glenn Kessler, "4 Pinocchios For Obama's Newest Anti-Romney Ad," The Washington Post, 6/21/12)
The Washington Post: "Obama Never Mentions Another Washington Post Article, One That Detailed How He Has Not Been Able To Fulfill Many Of His Campaign Promises In 2008 To Stem The Outflow Of American Jobs..." (Glenn Kessler, "Fact Check: Pioneers Of Outsourcing," The Washington Post, 10/16/12)
NUMBER 4: President Obama Claimed He Cut Taxes For The Middle Class — But Didn't Mention His Policies Are Threatening To Hike Taxes By $4,000:
President Obama: "My Philosophy On Taxes Has Been Simple, And That Is, I Want To Give Middle-Class Families, And Folks Who Are Striving To Get In The Middle Class, Some Relief..." OBAMA: "My philosophy on taxes has been simple, and that is, I want to give middle-class families, and folks who are striving to get in the middle class, some relief, because they have been hit hard over the last decade, over the last 15, over the last 20 years." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)
President Obama Has Already Raised Taxes On Nearly 5 Million Middle-Class Americans In Obamacare. ("Payments Of Penalties For Being Uninsured Under The Affordable Care Act," Congressional Budget Office, 9/12)


    An Analysis By The Congressional Budget Office Found That "Nearly 80 Percent Of Those Who'll Face" Obamacare's Mandate Tax Are In The Middle Class. "Nonetheless, in his first campaign for the White House, Obama pledged not to raise taxes on individuals making less than $200,000 a year and couples making less than $250,000. And the budget office analysis found that nearly 80 percent of those who'll face the penalty would be making up to or less than five times the federal poverty level." ("Tax Penalty To Hit Nearly 6M Uninsured People," The Associated Press, 9/19/12)
  

American Enterprise Institute Has Calculated That The Annual Cost Of President Obama's Current And Looming Debt Burden Amounts To $4,000 Per Year In Higher Taxes On The Middle Class. "In a new paper, AEI's Matt Jensen looks at the real annual cost of servicing the debt for households at various levels of income — including a potentially higher tax burden. As the table below illustrates, a household making between $100,000 and $200,000 a year could find its tax liability higher by roughly $2,400 every year. Over ten years, that works out to $24,000. And when you add in the debt already accrued the past four years under President Obama (the second table), that's another $1,600 a year. So now we are now talking about $4,000 a year, $40,000 over ten years." (James Pethokoukis, "Study: Obama's Big Budget Deficits Could Mean A $4,000 A Year Middle-Class Tax Hike," American Enterprise Institute, 10/2/12)
NUMBER 5: President Obama Falsely Claimed He Has Increased Energy Production On Public Lands:
President Obama: "We Have Increased Oil Production To The Highest Levels In 16 Years. Natural Gas Production Is The Highest It Has Been In Decades." OBAMA: "The most important thing we can do is to make sure we control our own energy. Here is what I have done since I was president, we have increased oil production to the highest levels in 16 years. Natural gas production is the highest it has been in decades." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)

President Obama: "We've Opened Up Public Lands. We're Actually Drilling More On Public Lands Than In The Previous Administration." ROMNEY: "As a matter of fact, oil production is down 14 percent this year on federal land, and gas production is down 9 percent. Why? Because the president cut in half the number of licenses and permits for drilling on federal lands and in federal waters." OBAMA: "Candy, there's no doubt that world demand's gone up. But our production is going up, and we're using oil more efficiently. And very little of what Governor Romney just said is true. We've opened up public lands. We're actually drilling more on public lands than in the previous administration." (President Barack Obama, Second Presidential Debate, Hempstead, NY, 10/16/12)

The Washington Post: "Contrary To President Obama's Assertions," Oil Production "On Public Land Is Down 14 Percent And Production Of Gas On Public Land Is Down 9 Percent." "Is Gov. Mitt Romney telling the truth when he says oil and gas production is down on public land? Contrary to President Obama's assertions, Romney's telling the truth when he says, 'Production of oil on public land is down 14 percent and production of gas on public land is down 9 percent.' That's because energy production on federal lands is down compared to 2010, according to the Energy Information Administration." (Juliet Eilperin, "The Truth About Oil And Gas Production On Public Land," The Washington Post, 10/16/12)
ABC's Jonathan Karl: "It Is True That Those Drilling Leases And Permits Are Down Under President Obama." KARL: "But on this issue of oil and gas drilling, Governor Romney said that oil and gas drilling is down by 50% on public lands. That is not exactly true but it's not far off. In fact, we looked at the numbers and oil drilling permits on public land dropped by 37% in the first two years of the Obama administration, 42% in terms of leases for natural gas. So the numbers weren't exactly right, but it is true that those drilling leases and permits are down under President Obama." (ABC's Presidential Debate Coverage, 10/16/12)
  