
    Asks the president to extend education benefits to National Guard troops who served 22-months in Iraq
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, Senator John Edwards sent an open letter to President Bush asking him to stand up for the troops and provide the education and other benefits they deserve. Edwards requested that President Bush extend education benefits to all 2,600 members of the Minnesota National Guard who served in Iraq for 22 consecutive months – the longest tour of any U.S. combat unit on the ground.
The full text of Edwards' letter to President Bush is included below:
October 8, 2007
Dear President Bush:
Last week, the American people were dismayed to learn that your administration is refusing to provide education benefits for almost half of the 2,600 members of the Minnesota National Guard who have just returned from Iraq. These brave men and women have gone above and beyond the call of duty, serving in Iraq for 22 consecutive months – longer than any other U.S. combat unit on the ground.
Tragically, instead of honoring their service, your administration has turned its back. It is a slap in the face that these brave men and women are not eligible to enroll for education benefits promised under the GI Bill. Given your administration's disastrous track record on veterans' issues, it strikes me as no coincidence that their orders were written for exactly one day short of the 730 days required to qualify for education benefits under the GI Bill. If you have any respect for the sacrifices the members of the Minnesota National Guard have made for this country, you will immediately grant them eligibility for the education benefits these veterans deserve.
The truth is your administration's policies have failed our service members in every way – from extending their tours so that they are away from their friends and family for far longer than they should be to denying them the health care attention and other benefits they so desperately need when they return. The news of this latest failure may not be surprising, but it is not less outrageous.
Our veterans deserve better. And this nation deserves a leader who is not afraid to take a stand and fight on behalf of those who fight to protect and defend this great nation every single day.
Mr. President, the way that you treat our country's veterans says a lot about the values of your administration. I ask you to join my call for restoring our Sacred Contract with our veterans and military families -- through policies that will guarantee quality health care, support military families, and provide educational and economic opportunities for civilian life. For once, it's time for you to do the right thing and stand by our heroes.
Sincerely,
John Edwards

  