
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and his intention to appoint eight individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Sichan Siv to be Representative of the United States of America to the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations with the rank of Ambassador. Mr. Siv is Senior Adviser to the International Republican Institute. He was a delegate to the 57th U.N. Commission on Human Rights. During the Administration of George H. W. Bush, he served as Deputy Assistant to the President for Public Liaison and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for South Asian Affairs. In 1976, Mr. Siv escaped to Thailand from Cambodia after having been in the Khmer Rouge forced labor camps for one year. On June 4, he was resettled as a refugee in Wallingford, Connecticut. A graduate of the University of Phnom Penh, he holds a Master of International Affairs from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate David Dugas to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana. Dugas is currently a Partner with the law firm of Caffery, Oubre, Dugas and Campbell in Lafayette, Louisiana, where he has practiced since 1981. In 1980, he was an Associate with Caffery, Oubre, Gibbons and Blackwell in New Iberia, Louisiana, and from 1978 to 1980, Dugas was an Associate with Sanders, Downing, Kean and Cazedussus in Baton Rouge. He received both an undergraduate and Law degree from Louisiana State University.
The President intends to nominate David O'Meilia to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Oklahoma. O'Meilia is presently a Partner with the law firm of Lyons, Clark, Danielson and O'Meilia in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and from 1996 to 1999, he practiced with Nichols, Wolfe, Stamper, Nally, Fallis and Robertson. From 1986 to 1996, he served with the U.S. Attorney's Office in Tulsa, as an Assistant U.S. Attorney, the lead attorney for the Northern Oklahoma Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force and then Senior Litigation. From 1980 to 1984, O'Meilia practiced with the Tulsa County District Attorney's Office. He is a graduate of Oklahoma State University and the University of Tulsa College of Law.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center:
Neal McCaleb of Maine for the remainder of a term expiring June 1, 2004. Maureen Patricia Cragin of Maine for the remainder of a term expiring June 1, 2004. Sonya E. Medina of Texas for the remainder of a term expiring June 1, 2004. Frances P. Mainella of Florida for a term expiring June, 1, 2006.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals as Members of the Board of Directors of the Presidio Trust for a term of four years expiring May 4, 2005:
Donald G. Fisher of California. Tony Rosenblatt of California. Mary G. Murphy of California.
The President intends to appoint Robert R. Reilly to be Director of the Voice of America. Reilly has hosted the weekly foreign policy talk show, "On The Line," on Voice of America and Worldnet TV since 1990. From 1988 to 1989, Reilly was President of the Intercollegiate Studies Institute in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. He was Senior Advisor for Public Diplomacy at the U.S. Embassy in Bern, Switzerland from 1985 to 1988, and from 1983 to 1985, Reilly served in the White House in the Office of Public Liaison handling foreign policy and national defense issues. Reilly was Director of Private Sector Programs at the U.S. Information Agency from 1981 to 1983. He received an undergraduate degree from Georgetown University and a Master's degree from Claremont Graduate School.
  