
    
"Girls can do anything."
In the entire history of the United States, only 44 women have held the title of U.S. senator.
Ten current members of the Senate girls' club came together to talk about why they're supporting one of their own.

What's the one thing you wish people knew about Hillary's time in the Senate?

Senator Barbara Boxer, California
"I want people to remember that Hillary was a U.S. senator from New York when they were hit hard by those planes crashing into the World Trade Center. And I still get chills thinking about Hillary. She went and stood on the rubble after 9/11 with a mask on. And she knew at that moment what the first responders were facing, health-wise. And she fought and fought to make sure we never forgot about those first responders. And I'll never forget that."

What's it like to work with Hillary?

Senator Dianne Feinstein, California
"Hillary was incisive and determined. Compassionate. Qualified."

Hillary Clinton in one word: Go.

Senator Jeanne Shaheen, New Hampshire

Fill in the blank: "When women get ahead ..."

Senator Tammy Baldwin, Wisconsin
"It's like what she said in Beijing. Women's rights are human rights. And so it's not like women are in some little silo. We are part of the human family. And the progress of any part is progress for the whole."

What would a Republican president mean for women?

Senator Claire McCaskill, Missouri
"June Cleaver? Would people get that?"

What's one real way Hillary will make a difference as president?

Senator Amy Klobuchar, Minnesota
"My home state is at the forefront of medical research and innovation. I know Hillary will fight hard for the critical investments our nation needs to find the treatments and cures that will help people stay healthy and ultimately, save lives."

Fill in the blank: Hillary will fight for ...

Senator Debbie Stabenow, Michigan
"I have seen Hillary fight from the first time I met her when we were on a panel together in Detroit. She was there talking about children and child abuse on behalf of the Children's Defense Fund. I was in awe. I said, ?Who is this woman?' Because she was so passionate and so articulate.
"I saw that same fight again when we came into the Senate together after the 2000 election. Whether it was equal pay, whether it was fighting to close loopholes to bring jobs home, whether it was lowering the cost of college, mental health, Hillary is someone you can count on to be there for you."

Women make excellent leaders because they ...

Senator Kirsten Gillibrand, New York
"They see the world differently."

What would it mean to have a woman in the Oval Office?

Senator Mazie Hirono, Hawaii

Is America ready for a woman president?

Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Maryland
"Speaks for itself. Show that to everyone!"
  