
    Donald J. Trump Announces State Directors in Florida, Texas and Virginia
Mr. Trump Continues to Build a Strategic and Significant National Campaign Team
(New York, NY) October 2, 2015 - Today Donald J. Trump announced the expansion of his campaign team with the addition of state directors in Florida, Texas and Virginia. Karen R. Giorno will serve as Trump campaign state director in Florida, Corbin Casteel will serve as Trump campaign state director in Texas and Mike Rubino will serve as Trump campaign state director in Virginia. Last week Mr. Trump announced new campaign hires in Georgia and Tennessee as well as Field Staff in Virginia. The Trump Campaign also has staff in Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and Nevada.
Mr. Trump stated, "We are in this to win it. These staff additions are the continuation of our plan to have a strategic and significant presence across the country. I am pleased that my vision to Make America Great Again has generated so much support and such a positive response that we are leading in all the polls. By adding to our team in these critical states we will be able to build on the tremendous support we have received and share our message with even more voters in these states.,. . I look forward to being in these states even more as I continue to share my ideas about how to put America back on top!"
Karen Giorno is a Political and External Affairs Specialist with 25 years experience in public relations, communications, organizational management, and presidential advance operations. She previously served as Director of External Affairs for Governor Rick Scott (R-FL).
Corbin Casteel has vast experience in Political Strategy and Corporate Communications Consulting including previous positions with the Republican National Committee and the Republican Party of Texas.
Michael Rubino has worked in varying capacities on twenty political campaigns to elect conservatives in nine different states. Recently, he worked closely with Congressman Dave Brat.
  