
    Okay. Ohio, are you ready to help carry your state to victory? Are you ready to elect John McCain as the next president of the United States of America? Are you ready to send us to Washington to shake things up?
In just twelve days Americans willbe asked to cast their vote for the next president of the United States, and there's no time to wait and there's no time to waste so let's get right into this message.
...
Our country is facing tough economic times right now, and now more than ever we need someone tough as president. We need a leader with experience and courage and good judgment and truthfulness. We need someone with a bold and free and fair plan of action to take this country in a new direction. We need John McCain.
John and I with our economic plan, we will help our families keep their homes and help our retirees keep their savings and those investments that they have worked so hard for and then they trusted other people to manage those dollars but then with corruption in Washington and corruption on Wall Street, they're forced to worry today. No. We will help them keep their savings.
We will help all of us to afford health care, and we're going to help our students pay for college. We will put thiseconomy back on track, and one of the first things we will do to get us there is to bring tax relief to every American and every business. And speaking of businesses, I know that here in Ohio, the backbone of your economy are our small businesses. If you own a business, if you work for a small business, let us see that representation. If you'll raise your hands.
Truly, you are the backbone of this economy and America's economy, and we're going to let you keep more of what you earn and produce so you can hire more people. That's how you create jobs. John and I will lower your income taxes and we'll double the child tax deduction for every family. We'll cut the capital gains tax and we'll cut business taxes. Right now the U.S. business tax is the second highest in the world. We will cut that so that we can keep American businesses in America.
...
So, Ohio, will you hire us? Will you send us to Washington? All right. It's a deal then. We'll take the job. Okay. John and I committed also, we will set this country firmly on a path toward energy independence. We're going to develop new energy sources and we'll tap into what we've got already, our oil, our key natural gas, our coal. As our good congressman suggested there, you know, we're circulating hundreds of billions of U.S. dollars in foreign countries, some countries that do not like America, and they use energy as a weapon. We're reliant on them and beholding to them to produce for us. We have the domestic solutions here. Our energy plan is going to create hundreds of thousands of new jobs here, and John and I will adopt an all-of-the-above approach to meet America's great energy challenge.Now, that means harnessing alternative sources too, like wind and solar andbiomass and geothermal, resources that God has so richly blessed this land with. And we will develop clean coal technology; and we will safely drill for the billions of barrels of oil that we have underground, including offshore, safely, responsibly.
  