
    The President. Okay, thank you very much. We're spending the day in Pennsylvania, and we're going to have a great day. And I think we're doing extremely well with the votes. I think it's going to be a very interesting 3 days. It's going to be a very interesting Tuesday. You have a big red wave that has formed, as you probably noticed.
We're doing very, very well with the African American vote. We're doing very, very well with the Hispanic vote all over. And we're doing very well. It's going to be really something.
I want to thank the special forces. We had a tremendous event happen, and really, these are incredible people that do this. But it was a tremendous event, and we'll be giving you some details in a very short period of time. And it was something that had to get done because they were playing with American citizens. We can't let that happen. So we'll be talking to you about that at the appropriate time.
But these are great people. These are the best in the world. There's nobody like them. And you know a little bit about it; I think people have started to hear. But we'll give you the details in a little while. Okay? Thank you.
2020 Presidential Election/Size Restriction on the President's Rally in Rochester, Minnesota 
Q. Have you thought a little bit about what you're doing on election night, Mr. President?
The President. Yes, I'll be perhaps between the White House and the hotel. Because, you know, we have a—I guess they have a limit—they placed limits on the hotel, which is unfortunate.
They did that yesterday in Minnesota—the Governor—and I think he's paying a very big price for it. We had thousands. We were going to have over 25,000 people. And you saw what went on there. It was ridiculous. And with all the problems that Minnesota has with riots, and all the things—and I saved Minneapolis. And they should have called me sooner. But we saved—I mean, you wouldn't even have a Minneapolis right now. And I think we're going to win Minnesota.
And I think what the Attorney General did and what the Governor did in Minnesota last night was very sad. Thousands and thousands of people were disenfranchised. I mean, they weren't—they traveled for miles and many miles to get there, in some cases. They were staying there. I mean, they slept over. And then, the Governor makes a political move. I don't think it's going to help him.
We want to win Minnesota. I think we have a really good chance, and I think he, frankly, gave us a better chance. Okay?
We'll talk to you later. Thank you.
Q. Thank you, sir.
  