
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Philip E. Coyle III,Associate Director for National Security and International Affairs, Office of Science and Technology Policy
•      Lawrence G. Romo, Director, Selective Service System
President Obama said, "These talented public servants will make valuable additions to my administration as we work to bring real change to the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Philip E. Coyle III, Nominee for Associate Director for National Security and International Affairs, Office of Science and Technology Policy
Philip E. Coyle III currently serves as a Senior Advisor to the President of the World Security Institute, and to its Center for Defense Information, a Washington D.C.-based national security study center. In 2005 and 2006, Coyle served on the nine-member Defense Base Realignment and Closure Commission (BRAC), appointed by President George W. Bush and nominated by Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi. Prior to this appointment, Mr. Coyle served on Governor of California Arnold Schwarzenegger's Base Support and Retention Council. From September 1994, through January 2001, Mr. Coyle was Assistant Secretary of Defense and Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, in the Department of Defense, and is the longest serving Director in the 25 year history of the Office. In this capacity, he was the principal advisor to the Secretary of Defense on test and evaluation in the DOD. Mr. Coyle has 40 years experience in national security research, development, and testing matters. From 1959 to 1979, and again from 1981 to 1993, Mr. Coyle worked at the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory (LLNL) in Livermore, California. Over those 33 years Mr. Coyle worked on a variety of nuclear weapons programs and other high technology programs. Mr. Coyle also served as Deputy Associate Director of the Laser Program at LLNL. Mr. Coyle retired from the Laboratory in 1993 as Laboratory Associate Director and deputy to the Director. In recognition of his years of service to the Laboratory and to the University of California, the University named Mr. Coyle Laboratory Associate Director Emeritus. During the Carter Administration, Mr. Coyle served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Defense Programs in the Department of Energy (DOE). In this capacity he had oversight responsibility for the nuclear weapons research, development, production and testing programs of the Department, as well as the DOE programs in arms control, non-proliferation, and nuclear safeguards and security.
Lawrence G. Romo, Nominee for Director, Selective Service System
Lawrence G. Romo, Lieutenant Colonel USAFR (Ret.), is the Soldier and Family Assistance Program Manager for the U.S. Army 5th Recruiting Brigade. He is also an Admissions Liaison Officer for the United States Air Force Academy. Prior to these positions, from 1992 – 1999, he was the Transition Assistance Program Specialist at Kelly Air Force Base and aided military personnel as they transitioned into the civilian job market. Mr. Romo was also the Chairman of Bexar County Veterans Committee and a member of the American Legion, American GI Forum, and the Military Officers Association of America. He currently serves as Chairman of the San Antonio Commission for Children and Families for the City of San Antonio, Texas. He received a Bachelor of Science degree from the United States Air Force Academy and a Master of Education degree from Montana State University – Northern (formerly Northern Montana College).
  