
    Today I have signed the Energy and Water Development Appropriation Act, 1981. It is the first appropriations bill to be enacted this year, and the amounts appropriated are very close to those recommended in my 1981 budget.
Included in this bill are appropriations for a variety of energy and water development programs in the Department of Energy, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Tennessee Valley Authority, and related agencies. Most of these programs have been supported by my administration, and on balance, it is a bill that represents a constructive compromise among contending interests. However, there remain elements in this bill that depart significantly from my water resource development policy. In signing H.R. 7590, I want to note my continued interest in working with the Congress to press for reforms in water resources policy.
As an important part of that effort, this bill provides for continuation of the Water Resources Council and therefore gives us an opportunity to work with Congress next year to establish in that agency the independent review that is necessary to ensure that projects are planned and designed as both economically feasible and environmentally acceptable. It contains a relatively small number of unbudgeted new projects, compared to past congressional practice, thus preserving our opportunity to complete economic and environmental studies on the remaining current candidates for new construction starts. It has also not provided funding for many of the projects I have opposed in the still pending omnibus water resources project authorization bill.
My administration has worked diligently to restore credibility to the Federal water resources development program, and with the support of many in the Congress, we have made significant progress. I am especially pleased with our record in the following respects:
1. We have established economic and environmental guidelines for planning water projects, to be consistently applied by all water resource program agencies.
2. Water conservation practices have been applied by Federal agencies in the administration of their water related programs.
3. An expanded grant program has been implemented to strengthen the ability of States to control planning for water resources within their jurisdictions.
4. We are working cooperatively with States in resolving longstanding problems related to Federal reserved water rights, in-stream flow maintenance, and groundwater management, in ways that do riot infringe on State authorities.
5. We have provided for environmental mitigation funding concurrently with water resource development project funding.
My administration will continue to consult with the Congress and the public on ways to further implement the unfinished proposals still pending, and we will work vigorously for the reform measures that will allow us to better plan for the water resource needs of this Nation.
  