
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

As Veterans Day approaches, it is appropriate to honor a small but growing segment of our veteran population—the 1.2 million women veterans. These women who served in uniform now comprise approximately 4.2 percent of the total veteran population, and they have demonstrated their dedication and their patriotism in situations that often entailed great hardship and danger. Their contribution to our national security continues to grow as the number and proportion of women in all branches of service continue to increase.
Through their sacrifices in behalf of all Americans, women in the Armed Forces have a record of achievement of which they can be justly proud. And we should all be proud of them. Their courage, dedication to duty, and unswerving fidelity to our Nation's ideals deserve our sincere gratitude.
During the past few years, great progress has been made in the effort to honor women veterans and to recognize their special needs and concerns. It is fitting that we, as a Nation, express our great appreciation to our women veterans for their vital contribution to our national security.
In recognition of the many contributions of women veterans, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 311, has designated the week beginning November 9, 1986, as "National Women Veterans Recognition Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 9, 1986, as National Women Veterans Recognition Week. I encourage all Americans and government officials at all levels to celebrate this week with appropriate observances and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  