
    Farmers around the globe are preparing to gather one of the largest harvests on record. Yet, despite this abundance, hundreds of millions of people will remain hungry and malnourished. Some Americans are among them. Theirs is a daily experience which saps the strength and will and prevents maximum human development. Their numbers will grow unless we find means to raise world food production and improve food distribution, reduce population growth, and help these men, women, and children raise themselves out of the poverty that lies at the root of their hunger.
The United States has a stake in helping to solve this problem, not only because of our humanitarian concerns but for other reasons as well. We cannot have a peaceful and prosperous world if a large part of the world's people are at or near the edge of hunger. So long as food shortages exist in developing countries, the possibility remains of another world food crisis like that of 1973-74. Such a crisis could trigger another ruinous cycle in food prices and thus contribute powerfully to inflation.
With the support of the American people and the Congress, this administration will intensify its efforts to meet the world hunger problem. To this end, we must look for ways to tap the talents and commitment of the American Nation in an effective international effort.
To assist in this vital effort, I have signed an Executive order creating a Presidential Commission on World Hunger. Ambassador Sol Linowitz, who will be its Chairman, has already served our country in many capacities—most recently as Ambassador to the OAS and as conegotiator in the Panama Canal treaties. None of his assignments, however, have been as important to the future hopes of mankind as the one he and his colleagues will undertake over the next 2 years—that of helping to alleviate hunger and malnutrition throughout the world.
I have asked the Commission to analyze the nature and dimensions of the problem, to assess the performance of existing programs, and to recommend actions this Nation can take to reduce world hunger and malnutrition. I have also asked the Commission to inform the American public of these recommendations and assist in their implementation. The Commission will provide me with a status report by July 31, 1979, and a final report by May 31, 1980.
I am confident that this new venture, which will entail close cooperation between the private sector and U.S. legislative and executive branches of Government, will produce a notable advance in the war on hunger.
  