
    Earlier this week, Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer traveled to Nigeria, Equatorial Guinea, and Mauritania. He was joined by National Security Council Senior Director for Africa Dana Banks and Deputy Assistant Secretary for African Affairs Michael Gonzales. The trip underscored the Biden Administration's commitment to partnering with African nations to solve global challenges and advance shared interests.
In Nigeria, Mr. Finer met with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Minister of Foreign Affairs Geoffrey Onyema, and other senior Nigerian officials. Mr. Finer affirmed the importance of the bilateral relationship and underscored our shared commitment to democratic values. The two delegations discussed U.S. support for Nigerian efforts to address regional security challenges, including maritime security in the Gulf of Guinea. Mr. Finer expressed the U.S. commitment to work together to combat climate change, terrorism, and corruption, and support human rights and the rule of law. The delegations discussed the Build Back Better World (B3W) initiative, a values-driven, high-standard, and transparent G7 infrastructure partnership. Finally, they agreed to work together to strengthen global health security and end the COVID-19 pandemic, an effort that includes the over 7.5 million vaccine doses donated to Nigeria by the United States to date.
In Equatorial Guinea, Mr. Finer met with President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, Vice President Teodoro Nguema Obiang Mangue, and other senior officials to discuss ways to enhance maritime security and end the COVID-19 pandemic.
In Mauritania, Mr. Finer met with President Mohamed Ould Ghazouani, Minister for Foreign Affairs Ismael Ould Cheikh Ahmed, Minister of Defense Hanana Sidi, and other senior Mauritanian officials. He expressed U.S. support for Mauritania's efforts to combat terrorism, address long-standing human rights concerns, combat corruption, and defeat COVID-19. They also discussed the B3W initiative. While in Mauritania, Mr. Finer met with the Executive Secretary and the staff of the G5 Sahel. He also met with alumni of the Young African Leaders Initiative (YALI).
  