
    On Friday, October 14th, Governor Rick Perry will unveil a key job creation policy platform that will energize the American economy. He discussed Obama's failure to unleash American energy and grow American jobs:
INDIANAPOLIS — Texas Gov. Rick Perry aimed his attacks at President Obama's energy and jobs policies Wednesday by criticizing the president's speech in Pittsburgh Tuesday and by painting his own forthcoming energy and jobs plan as a direct contrast to the president's.
"This president would rather listen to an environmental activist than he would the pleas and the cries of the people without a job," Perry said at the Indiana Republican Party's Presidential Forum in Indianapolis.
"The question is whether the president's going to listen to his advisers on jobs or competiveness or is he going to listen to the activists that are pushing an agenda that pits environment against the economy," Perry added. "That's what the question is. I'm going to be in Pittsburgh Friday and I'm going to announce my own energy jobs plan, and I can promise you this: I'm going to take the side of workers and employers in America. That's who I'm going to be standing with."

Visit RickPerry.org Friday to see Gov. Perry's plan.
"The next economic boom is right under our feet. Our own oil resources alone are vast enough to meet the next 300 years of energy demand at today's levels," Perry said. "We have the answer, my friends. It's right below our own feet. And what has been this administration's response to our energy potential? They've thrown every bureaucratic obstacle possible in order to advance an activist agenda."
Perry criticized the administration's "bureaucratic overkill" and argued that new EPA regulations will lead to the loss of 1.6 million jobs by 2020.
"The choice this election is whether we're going to keep a president who has failed to create jobs and who is pro-bailout, pro-government-mandated health care, pro-cap and trade, or whether we're going to change the course and elect a president who will give consumers greater freedom, who will protect us from job-killing carbon schemes and who will support policies that are good for Main Street and not just Wall Street," Perry said.

As governor of Texas, Rick Perry fostered economic policies that allowed the creation of over one million jobs while the rest of the nation lost 2.5 million.
The full article.
  