
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Brock D. Bierman of Virginia to be an Assistant Administrator, Europe and Eurasia, United States Agency of International Development. Mr. Bierman is a small business owner and has served as CEO of Civic Ancestry since 2010. Before Civic Ancestry, Bierman worked within the George W. Bush Administration. Designated by President Bush in 2007, he was sworn in as the first small state and rural advocate at the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), while also serving as the agency's director of community preparedness. Before joining FEMA, Bierman served as Chief of Staff and Senior Advisor for the Bureau for Europe and Eurasia at the U.S. Agency for International Development. While at USAID, Bierman was recognized with several honor awards and the Medal of Civic Merit by the President of the Republic of Moldova. A native Rhode Islander, Bierman served six years in the State House of Representatives. After graduating from Bowling Green State University in 1986, Bierman married Lisa Anne Gardner. They have two children, Allison (22) and Robert (20).
Jon J. Rychalski of Montana to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Veterans Affairs. Mr. Rychalski is a senior executive with more than 25 years of Federal and commercial financial management experience. Mr. Rychalski currently serves as the Acting Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs and Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Resources Management and Policy. Previously, Mr. Rychalski served as the director of financial plans and policy within the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs. Mr. Rychalski has also held senior financial leadership executive positions at PriceWaterhouseCoopers and KMPG. Mr. Rychalski is a former Medical Service Corps Officer in the Air Force. He is a graduate of National College, Carroll College, and the State University of New York.
Hannibal "Mike" Ware of the Virgin Islands to be Inspector General of the Small Business Administration. Mr. Ware currently serves as the Acting Inspector General for the U.S. Small Business Administration (SBA). Since April 2016, Mr. Ware has served as the SBA Deputy Inspector General. In this role, he is responsible for independent oversight of SBA's programs and operations, which encompasses more than $100 billion in guaranteed loans and nearly $100 billion in Federal contracting dollars. Mr. Ware has more than 27 years of experience within the OIG community, the first 26 years being with the Department of Interior Office of Inspector General (DOI OIG). In 1990, he joined DOI OIG's Virgin Islands field office as an auditor. Throughout his long and distinguished oversight career, he performed increasingly challenging and vital roles. Mr. Ware is a native of the U.S. Virgin Islands and holds a B.A in accounting from the University of the Virgin Islands.
  