
    
  Graham: "[McCain] Did 100 Town Hall Meetings In New Hampshire. I'm Going To Try To Duplicate That. I Think I'm The Best Person To Be Commander-In-Chief."

Yesterday, Senator Lindsey Graham spent the day by continuing his tour in New Hampshire where he visited local businesses, held a town hall meeting in Newport, and responded to reports that Iran is test launching a new ballistic missile. Senator Graham ended his day in the Granite State by attempting to watch the CNN #DemDebate. In case you missed it, take a look at some of coverage from yesterday including Graham's reaction to last night's debate:

Conway Daily Sun: "On Tuesday, Sen. Graham Responded To Reports Of Iran's Apparent Test Launch Of A New Ballistic Missile Capable Of Reaching Israel And Other U.S. Allies." (Lloyd Jones, "Graham plans to follow McCain's playbook in N.H.," Conway Daily Sun, 10/12/15)
"Iran's apparent test launch of a new precision-guided ballistic missile capable of hitting Israel and other U.S. allies is dangerous new evidence of President Obama's disastrous policies and complete lack of leadership in the Middle East," he said. "After capitulating to Iran on every major negotiating objective in his nuclear deal, which is set to release over $100 billion in funds to the Iranian regime, the Ayatollah has demonstrated exactly how he will use that money: building its war machine and strengthening its capacity to wreak havoc in the Middle East, terrorize our allies, and directly threaten the security of the United States."
Graham Expresses His Thoughts On The #DemDebate...

From The Responses To Foreign Policy Questions...

To Bernie Sanders' Understanding Of Russia...

To Hillary Clinton's Response To Benghazi...

To Just Basic Acknowledgement Of The Issues That Face Our Nation...

FOX News: "At Least One Candidate Couldn't Make It To The End Of The Night."
(Staff, "Democratic debate GOP reaction: Huckabee tweet causes stir, Graham turns in early, FOX News, 10/14/15)

After That Performance, Ready To Discuss Our Nation's Future In NH Today!
Conway Daily Sun: "[Graham] Plans To Hold More Than 100 Town Hall Meetings In The State" And "Will Spend Much Of Wednesday In Conway." (Lloyd Jones, "Graham plans to follow McCain's playbook in N.H.," Conway Daily Sun, 10/12/15)
  