
    
  

Governor Pataki is getting an overwhelmingly positive response for his performance in last night's CNBC debate. We wanted to make sure you saw these quotes and clips from the debate:
On tax reform:
"I cut taxes more than everybody on this stage, more than everybody on the next stage combined, by more than the other 49 states, in New York State. I don't just have a plan. I will enact tax cuts, get rid of those loopholes, and make the system fairer for all Americans."

On working across party lines:
"I understand to change Washington, you have to understand government as well. You can't just be an outsider, you can't just be someone who throws stones at Washington. You have to be someone who can actually bring people together across party lines. I can do that. I will do that if I have the chance to lead this party."
On protecting America's military:
"Barack Obama is the first President in American history to hold our military hostage. He knew that we needed funding for overseas contingent operations, $30 million that would go to support our troops. And he was prepared and would have vetoed it unless this deal went through. I have two sons. They both served overseas, one in Iraq and one in Afghanistan. I understand we have got to do far more to help our military, help our veterans and help protect our security. This is a bad deal. But to protect our military, I would have signed it."

On Hillary Clinton:
"Hillary Clinton put a server, an unsecure server, in her home as Secretary of State. We have no doubt that that was hacked and that state secrets are out there to the Iranians, the Russians, the Chinese, and others. That, alone, should disqualify her from being President of the United States."
On Obamacare:
"No question, Barack Obama inherited an economic disaster in 2009. But what did he do? Instead of focusing on pro-growth policies and the economy, he ran through Obamacare, the worst law of my lifetime, that hurt small businesses, hurt companies, raised taxes, and almost completely eliminated one industry because of its taxes."
On vaccines and climate change:
"One of the things that troubles me about the Republican Party is too often we question science that everyone accepts. I mean, it's ridiculous in the 21st century we are questioning whether or not vaccines are the appropriate way to go. Of course they are. And it's also not appropriate to think that human activity, putting CO2 into the atmosphere, doesn't make the earth warmer, all things being equal. It does. It's uncontroverted."

On a new brand of conservatism:
"I'm a limited government conservative. And I mean by that that not just when it comes to economic issues, leaving them to the state, but social issues as well. And in that I differ from every single other candidate seeking the Republican nomination. I take the Tenth Amendment very, very seriously."
On embracing science and innovation:
"I'm a Republican who embraces science and understands we have to work with the next generation of Millennials to have the innovation and technology so that we can grow a 21st century economy."
On supporting America's blue-collar workers:
"What we have to do in America is honor blue-collar work again. We have to honor the carpenter, the plumber, the electrician who can actually build something. And instead of just saying that a college degree delivers prestige, let's celebrate those who do things with their hands and elevate their skills, using training in high school and community colleges."
On Uber:
"The [app] I use the most is Uber. You know, I used to get driven. When I was governor, I had a driver. I don't anymore. It's an example of what Millennials are doing to change America for the better."
On New York sports teams:
"I'm a long-suffering Jets fan, so my answer is no, there's no reason to take off the day after the Super Bowl...Let me just add this. The Mets are going to win tonight."
  