
    SANTE FE, NM-- The Richardson for President campaign today announced it has added seasoned campaign veterans to the senior staff of its Iowa operation, opened a number of new field offices across the state, and hired additional field organizers. Veteran Iowa campaign operatives all, Jim Farrell, David Rogers, T.K. Anderson, and Shari Fitzgerald bring a wealth of knowledge and experience to the Iowa campaign.
"The Richardson for President campaign in Iowa is growing stronger from top to bottom," new Deputy State Director Jim Farrell said. "If Americans want to end the war in Iraq, we must get all of the troops out of Iraq -- in months, not in years. Bill Richardson is the only candidate who will do it."
Jim Farrell, Deputy State Director, served as Bill Bradley's Iowa communications director in 2000. He previously was the late U.S. Senator Paul Wellstone's (D-MN) communications director, worked on the Clinton '92 and '96 campaigns, and served in the press office of former VA Secretary Jesse Brown. He most recently was the executive director of the Montana Democratic Party during the successful campaign of U.S. Senator Jon Tester.
David Rogers, Political Director, is a native Iowan. He left his position as a field organizer for Iowans for Sensible Priorities to join Richardson for President. In 2004, Rogers served as Iowa State Director for Dennis Kucinich's Presidential campaign and later served as Kucinich's National Advance Director. He recently ran two Congressional campaigns in Western Iowa.
Shari Fitzgerald, Caucus Director, is a seasoned Iowa political operative who has been involved in every caucus since 1972. She was part of Dick Gephardt's 2004 and 1988 Presidential Iowa campaigns, Bill Bradley's 2000 Presidential campaign, President Carter's 1976 and 1980 campaigns, and has served on the State Central Committee of the Iowa Democratic Party.
T.K. Anderson, Deputy Political Director for Eastern Iowa, has served as President of the Davenport, Iowa NAACP for two terms and previously as its Political Action Chair. Anderson served two terms on the Davenport Civil Rights Commission, has been a candidate for the Scott County Board of Supervisors, and has worked with the Harkin, Vilsack and Culver campaigns. He is a Vietnam Veteran and an experienced community and grassroots organizer.
Lauren Rose, Iowa Communications Director, most recently worked for a nationally-respected Democratic direct mail firm. In 2004, she worked in the South Carolina press operation of General Wes Clark's Presidential campaign, as well as on numerous campaigns in Texas.
Valerie Herold, Scheduling/Advance Director, served on the Virginia Coordinated Campaign in 2006 during Senator Jim Webb's successful campaign and Kerry-Edwards 2004 in Florida, was a Field Director for Clinton-Gore 1996 in Florida, and worked for Treasury Secretaries Rubin and Summers.
Richardson for President's new hires join State Director Robert Becker, who was Bill Bradley's Polk County Field Director in 2000, Brad Frevert, and Phoebe Silag. Frevert, the Iowa Field Director, is a native Iowan and a veteran of the Harkin and Vilsack Campaigns in 2002 and Kerry-Edwards 2004 in Iowa, and was previously the Iowa Democratic Party's Field Director. Silag, Deputy Iowa Communications Director, a native Iowan and graduate of the University of Iowa College of Law, is a veteran of the Culver-Judge 2006 campaign and ACT in Iowa 2004.
The Richardson for President campaign is putting more boots on the ground across Iowa at 15 field offices in the state: Des Moines, Ames, Marshalltown, Davenport, Burlington, Ottumwa, Cedar Rapids, Iowa City, Dubuque, Waterloo, Mason City, Fort Dodge, Council Bluffs, Sioux City, and Storm Lake.
The Richardson campaign currently has more than 70 organizers in the field in Iowa.
  