
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Every child is a great and precious blessing, a unique individual of inestimable worth and potential. Given love, encouragement, and the opportunity to develop his or her own special gifts, every child will make a singular contribution to his family and to the world around him.
Parents have no greater or more rewarding responsibility than to welcome, nurture, and protect the children God has entrusted to their care. In addition to supplying the steady, reliable material support that is vital to their children's emotional and physical well-being, parents are charged with the stewardship of their little ones' spiritual and intellectual development.
Whether he or she is their biological, adoptive, or foster child, every youngster needs both parents' attention and affection, as well as praise and guidance. The time a child spends with his or her parents is priceless, because the lessons learned in their company will last a lifetime. Indeed, as their first teachers, best friends, and most influential role models, parents shape the course of their little ones' life's journey, helping them to grow in faith, self-discipline, self-esteem, and respect and concern for others. The importance of parents' example cannot be overstated, because without trust in God and a firm belief in what is right and good, a child is much like a ship without an anchor or a compass.
The government must not and, indeed, cannot arrogate to itself the primary responsibility of parents in caring for their children. However, it can help parents in their sometimes difficult role through wise and carefully developed measures that strengthen the family and give every child the opportunity to grow up safe, healthy, and well educated.
On this day set aside in honor of our Nation's youngest and most vulnerable citizens, let us remember that each and every child is a treasure from God. Let us also renew our determination to render our children the love and respect they need and deserve. Doing so is not only a moral imperative, it is also in our Nation's best interest. After all, the child who is treated in a just, loving, and thoughtful manner is most likely to become the kind of citizen and neighbor who treats others with the same.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 316 (Public Law 101-349), has designated the second Sunday in October 1990 as "National Children's Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Sunday, October 14, 1990, as National Children's Day. I call upon the American people to observe that day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities designed to honor children and to emphasize the importance of their well-being to our entire Nation. I also urge all Americans to reflect upon the importance of children to our families, as well as the importance of strong families to our children.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  