
    Presidential candidate earns endorsements across Nevada
LAS VEGAS and RENO, NV-- Today, during campaign events in Las Vegas and Reno, the Richardson for President campaign earned four important endorsements. Las Vegas Mayor Pro-Tem Gary Reese, the Plasterers' and Cement Masons' Local 797, Carson City Democratic Party Chairman Steve Platt, and former Chair of the Southern Nevada Stonewall Democrats Bill Jacobs all announced their support for Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson.
"I am thrilled to welcome Gary, Steve, Bill, and the Plasterers to my campaign, and I thank them for their support," New Mexico Governor Richardson said. "Individually, each of these endorsements builds our momentum in Nevada. Taken together, they paint a picture of the tremendous depth and breadth of support that we are finding in this state."
Governor Richardson received the endorsement of Las Vegas Mayor Pro-Tem Gary Reese at a morning meeting today after discussing the important issues of homelessness and federal and urban relations.
At their annual picnic, the Plasterers' and Cement Masons' Local 797 endorsed Governor Richardson, citing his strong support for labor both nationally and in New Mexico.
"While every candidate voices his or her support for working families, Bill Richardson actually has delivered for workers in his state," Mark Leavitt, Executive Director of Local 797 said. "He raised the minimum wage. He signed his state's first project labor agreement. He restored collective bargaining rights to public employees. His record shows that he keeps his promises and gets things done. That is why Local 797 believes that Bill Richardson should be our next President and why we will work hard to help him win in Nevada."
At the GLBT Mock Caucus and Issues Forum hosted at the GLBT Center by the Human Rights Campaign and the Stonewall Democrats, Governor Richardson welcomed Bill Jacobs as the new Richardson for President Nevada Director of GLBT Outreach. Formerly the Chair of the Southern Nevada Stonewall Democrats, Jacobs currently serves as a board member of the Southern Nevada chapter and the Regional Director of the National Stonewall Democrats.
"The GLBT community has a great deal at stake in this election," Jacobs said. "We need a President who has proven himself both willing and able to defend equal rights for every American, and Bill Richardson repeatedly has demonstrated and acted on his commitment to equality. I believe he is the best candidate in this race in either party, not only on GLBT issues, but also on Iraq, health care, education, and the other challenges we face together. I am proud to share my belief with members of the community here in Nevada."
Later this evening, at a house party in northern Nevada, Carson City Democratic Party Chairman Steve Platt will endorse Governor Richardson.
"Bill Richardson will lead our country in the right direction and strengthen the Democratic Party in Nevada and in the West," Platt said beforehand. "He is a Westerner like us. Rural Democrats know that he will stand by them, and rural Republicans and Independents are changing parties to support him. It is an honor to be part of the campaign of the next President of the United States."
These endorsements come during Governor Richardson's 17th campaign day in Nevada, the most of any Presidential candidate.
  