
    Mr. Chairman, Fellow Citizens:
It is an honor to join the Columbus Citizens Committee in this traditional ceremony. As dwellers in this mighty continent--whether in its northern or in its southern half--we cannot fail to honor the memory of Christopher Columbus and acknowledge our debt to him.
Columbus opened the door to the New World, to a new world of opportunity for the millions who have followed the path he blazed. Coming from every land and race and creed, our own forefathers came together and built a nation.
Our people have made their own distinctive contributions to mankind. We have forged a new pattern of democracy. We established a new nation, where men were and are free to live their own lives.
Over the decades, blessed by a generous Providence, we have grown in strength and in tradition. We began to believe that we were set apart, a new creation entirely. Surrounded on both sides by two mighty oceans, we developed our productive capacity and flourished in a world Of Our own.
But, in recent years, we have witnessed a profound change in the life and attitude of our people. We know that we are no longer living in a "new" world; we are rather living in a part of the whole world--and our fortunes are intimately related to the fortunes of our neighbors overseas-on every continent.
Our wisest men have known this from the beginning. We have always been part of the whole fabric of human life.
As a part of the world's life--and especially with those that, with us, respect human liberty and dignity--we must, if we are to advance our common fortunes, live as a family of equals. Cooperation among us, whether it be in trade for increased prosperity or in the task of protecting our free institutions from aggression, is the common obligation of all. Unless each nation performs this task to the extent of its capacity, then none of us can long live in peace.
But as long as we are faithful to these self-evident truths, we can proudly say that we are a new world. As long as our minds and hearts are as wide open as the Atlantic Ocean and our understanding as deep, we will continue to welcome new Christopher Columbuses to our shores, and with them push forward toward that goal of all mankind, a just and permanent peace.
Thank you very much indeed.
  