
    
Last night, Marco Rubio was in Salt Lake City, Utah where over 400 people came out to hear him speak about his vision for a New American Century.
Support continues to grow for Marco in the western states. This trip followed a recent campaign stop in Nevada, where 1,200 people came out to his town hall in Summerlin, a happy hour in Las Vegas and a rally in Boulder City. Marco also chatted in-depth about what it was like to spend part of his childhood in Las Vegas.
Below are some highlights from Utah.
At a rally at the Utah State Fairgrounds, the Salt Lake Tribune reports that Marco outlined his vision for a New American Century and for preserving the American Dream. "This election is not a choice between Republicans and Democrats alone," he said. "This election is a generational choice, and here's the choice: What kind of country are we going to be in the new century? We'll either be the first Americans who leave our children worse than ourselves, or our children will be the freest and most prosperous Americans ever."
Marco also touched on his plans for a New American Economy for the 21st Century. As the Associated Press reports: Republican presidential candidate Marco Rubio pitched himself as a fresh face in his party's crowded primary contest during a Monday night campaign stop in Utah. The 44-year-old Rubio spoke about outdated government policies that haven't kept up with disruptive technologies like ride-hailing company Uber.
Additionally, the Deseret News reports that Marco listed his proposals for creating a vibrant 21st Century. He offered a long list of proposals for improving the economy, including allowing high school students to learn a trade so they can be prepared to work upon graduation, promising to be the "vocational education president." Rubio drew applause and cheers for a number of stands he took, including for repealing President Barack Obama's signature health care law and replacing it with a plan that allows people to purchase their choice of plan with a refundable tax credit.

Finally, the Salt Lake Tribune notes that Marco's speech was well received as supporters chanted "Rubio! Rubio!" The Florida senator then hit on a laundry list of topics — from energy policy to national security to vocational training and economic policy — during his 40-minute stump speech, drawing a handful of ovations and chants of "Rubio! Rubio!"
THE FRONT PAGES ...



pic.twitter.com/60CI0P37bc
— Robert Daniels (@DanielsRobertD) October 19, 2015
Very enthusiastic crowd in Salt Lake City tonight! #TeamMarco pic.twitter.com/iWLO2wsVHC — Brooke Sammon (@BrookeSammon) October 19, 2015
  