
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint three individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Bernadette M. Allen, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger. Ms. Allen is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service and recently completed service as Principal Officer and Consul General in Montréal, Canada. Prior to this, she served as Chief of the Consular Section in Montréal. Earlier in her career, Ms. Allen served as Chief of the Coordination Division of the Office of Legislation, Regulations, and Advisory Assistance in Visa Services in the Bureau of Consular Affairs. She has also served as a General Services Officer and Vice Consul in Bujumbura, Burundi and in the Bureau of African Affairs at the Department of State. Ms. Allen received her bachelor's degree from Central College in Iowa and her master's degree from the George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Janice L. Jacobs, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Senegal and to the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. Ms. Jacobs is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service and currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Visa Services in the Bureau of Consular Affairs. Prior to this, she was the Deputy Chief of Mission in Santo Domingo. From 1991 to 1994, Ms. Jacobs served as the Principal Officer in Matamoros, Mexico. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of the Office of Field Support in the Visa Directorate and Deputy Coordinator for Cuban Affairs. Ms. Jacobs received her bachelor's degree from Southern Illinois University and her master's degree from the National War College.
The President intends to nominate Marilyn Ware, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland. Ms. Ware currently serves as Chief Executive Officer for the Ware Family Office, which designs and initiates business ventures and investment opportunities. She previously served as Chairman of Board of American Water Works Company for 15 years. In 2002, she was appointed by President George W. Bush to serve as a member of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council. In addition, Ms. Ware serves as a trustee of the Eisenhower Fellowship, an international exchange program.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Board on Radiation and Worker Health:
Bradley P. Clawson of Idaho
James E. Lockey of Ohio
John W. Poston, Sr. of Texas
The President intends to designate Naomi Churchill Earp, of Virginia, to be Vice Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, for the remainder of a five year term expiring July 1, 2010. Ms. Earp currently serves as Vice Chair of the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Prior to this, she served as Director of Equal Employment Opportunity and Diversity at the National Institute of Health. She has also held leadership positions with the National Institute of Science and Technology, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Department of Agriculture. Ms. Earp received her bachelor's degree from Norfolk University, her master's degree from Indiana University and her JD from Catholic University Columbus School of Law.
  