
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Ronald Douglas Johnson of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador.
Mr. Johnson has served the United States Government for over three decades. His career in the Government first began as an officer in the United States Army, retiring in 1998 as a Colonel, and then as a member of the intelligence community. Currently, Mr. Johnson is the Central Intelligence Agency's Science and Technology Liaison to the United States Special Operations Command in Tampa, Florida. Previously, he was special advisor to the United States Southern Command, managing collaboration between the Command and agencies and departments, such as the Department of State, Department of Homeland Security, Intelligence Community, Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Federal Bureau of Investigation, and United States Agency for International Development. He has worked on a wide range of regional issues, including refugees, counternarcotics, counterterrorism, human rights, and tropical virus disease control. Mr. Johnson earned a B.S. from the University of the State of New York and M.S. from the National Intelligence University. Mr. Johnson speaks Spanish.
Donald W. Washington of Louisiana, to be Director of the United States Marshal Service, Department of Justice. 
Mr. Washington is a Partner with the Jones Walker Law Firm, and primarily litigates matters involving business, energy, white-collar crime, and healthcare issues. Previously, he served as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana and was the Chief Federal Law Enforcement Official for the Western District of Louisiana. Additionally, Mr. Washington served on several Department of Justice committees while serving as a United States Attorney, including United States Attorney General's advisory committees and subcommittees on Civil Rights, Controlled Substances, and Native American Issues. Mr. Washington was also the Chairman of the Southeastern United States Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Force. He graduated from the United States Military Academy, West Point, New York, with a degree in mechanical engineering. Mr. Washington served as a Captain of the Air Defense Artillery in the United States Army and in the Army Reserve from 1983 to 1987. He earned a J.D. from South Texas College of Law, Houston, Texas.
  