
    The Briefing Room
4:02 P.M. EDT
MR. MCCURRY: Any other subjects today before -- this is -- there's no other briefing today beyond this.
Q: What's tomorrow like?
MR. MCCURRY: Tomorrow the President intends to depart, as planned, for Chautauqua to begin some preparations for the little debate we have Sunday night.
Q: What time?
MR. MCCURRY: We've got a schedule coming out shortly.
Q: -- before he goes out --
MR. MCCURRY: Are we doing an arrival rally in Buffalo, is that still on the schedule? He'll have a public appearance, public event in Buffalo. And I think there is also -- the President is going to take some of the significant anticrime measures that have been passed by the Congress in the last couple of days, he intends to sign some of those and also discuss some of the steps we've taken to improve our law enforcement and anticrime efforts in an event here before we leave tomorrow.
Q: I'm sorry, I'm a little confused. You say this is a signing that you're going to be doing in Buffalo?
MR. MCCURRY: No, that's here. We'll do that here. Then we leave. Then we'll have a rally in Buffalo when we arrive. And then we basically go down. I'll be -- we'll be very minimal, and for those of you who are trying to make a decision about whether you need to go to New York, we intend very limited information. The President's -- obviously, we're going to do a debate; it's Sunday night. I'll be available if there's anything that happens, and we'll give you one or two insights into what he's doing, but basically, it's just a standard debate prep the way candidates usually debate.
Q: Can we tape it?
MR. MCCURRY: No.
Q: Will he make any side trips?
MR. MCCURRY: He may make one or two side trips. He may play some golf. He may canoe in the lake.
Q: But not campaign?
MR. MCCURRY: Do whatever he wants to do. And maybe do one or two events during the two or three days where he gets to see some real people, as opposed to his staff.
Okay? Any other questions?
Q: One last question. Why did the President claim executive privilege in regards to FBI Director Louis Freeh's --
MR. MCCURRY: For the reason set for in the letter that Mr. Quinn sent to Mr. whoever it was.
Let's take a break. Let's take a quick break and then we'll come back in.
END 4:05 P.M. EDT
  