
    LAST Saturday, I commented on several of the bills which passed the Congress during its closing days and which I decided to approve. Today I am announcing a number of additional decisions concerning bills which have come to me for signature.
A list of the additional legislation which I am signing will be released with this statement.
I am taking this opportunity to comment on some of the most significant bills which are included on that list.
HELPING MINORITY ENTERPRISES AND OTHER SMALL BUSINESSES
In messages to the Congress in late 1971 and early 1972, I requested that our program to help minority enterprise be strengthened by giving four new authorities to Minority Enterprise Small Business Investment Companies. S. 3337, the Small Business Investment Act Amendments of 1972, adopts all four of these recommendations--lowering requirements for Federal assistance, providing increased equity by enabling the Small Business Administration to purchase preferred stock in such a company, lowering interest rates on SBA loans to such companies, and allowing them to organize as nonprofit corporations so as to qualify for more favorable tax treatment. It also strengthens regular Small Business Investment Companies, permitting maximum utilization of the SBIC guarantee authority which this Administration had earlier sought, and which was enacted last year. As a result of this bill, more Americans--especially disadvantaged Americans--will be able to gain a piece of the economic action in our country, and we will be closer to our goal of providing an equal opportunity for every citizen to share fully in the great American adventure.
MEETING HEALTH NEEDS
The Emergency Health Personnel Act Amendments of 1972, S. 3858, will strengthen and extend the life of the National Health Service Corps which has been working for the last 2 years to meet the needs of areas with critical health manpower shortages. In order to improve recruitment for this program, the bill also authorizes a program of scholarships for students in the health professions. This legislation addresses a need which has concerned me for a long time, and I am pleased to sign it into law.
Another important initiative in the health field is H.R. 15475, a bill which establishes a National Advisory Commission on Multiple Sclerosis to help determine the most effective means for finding the causes and cures for this disease. It represents a promising step in our battle against a terrible and elusive enemy, and I am happy to give it my approval.
OTHER FORWARD STEPS
Among the many other bills receiving my approval are S. 2318, which will update and expand compensation benefits for longshoremen and harbor workers; S. 3843, which helps restore and replace essential railway facilities and equipment which were damaged during Hurricane Agnes and other natural disasters this past June; H.R. 8273, which liberalizes the Immigration and Nationality Act; and H.R. 15461, which implements the boundary treaty which our Government signed with Mexico in 1970. Another significant forward step is the creation, by H.R. 10751, of the Pennsylvania Avenue Development Corporation, a measure which I discussed in a separate statement last week.
One of the purposes of another of these bills, H.R. 4.678, is to prohibit the importation into the United States of precious pre-Columbian art treasures illegally removed from their countries of origin-our close friends and neighbors of Central America. It is with special pleasure that I sign this legislation.
I am also very happy to sign H.R. 14911, which will allow prisoners of war and those who are missing in action to accumulate military leave time at the normal rate without limitation, so that they or their survivors can be more generously reimbursed when they are returned from prisoner-of-war or missing status. This same bill also carries out another Administration recommendation by authorizing a second Deputy Secretary of Defense to be appointed by the President.
  