
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 17
In the morning, the President traveled to Queenstown, MD.
In the afternoon, the President met with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority in Houghton House at the Aspen Institute Wye River Conference Center. Later, he had a telephone conversation with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt concerning the Middle East peace process.
In the late afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel in the River House at the conference center. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
October 18
In the morning, the President traveled to Queenstown, MD.
In the afternoon, the President had a luncheon with Prime Minister Netanyahu at the Wye River Conference Center. Later, he twice met with Chairman Arafat at the conference center.
After midnight, the President returned to Washington, DC.
October 19
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Queenstown, MD, where he met separately with Prime Minister Netanyahu and Chairman Arafat at the Wye River Conference Center throughout the day. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marc B. Nathanson as Chair of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the International Broadcasting Bureau.
The President announced his intention to appoint Eli Segal and Jose Villarreal as members of the Fannie Mae Board of Directors.
The President declared a major disaster in Missouri and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on July 10-31.
October 20
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Queenstown, MD, where he met with King Hussein I of Jordan at Carmichael Farm near the Wye River Conference Center. He then returned to the conference center, where he had a telephone conversation with President Mubarak to update him on the peace process and to extend condolences concerning the train wreck near Alexandria, Egypt. Later, the President met with Chairman Arafat at the conference center.
In the evening, the President met with Prime Minister Netanyahu at the conference center until after midnight. The President then returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Cape Canaveral, FL, to attend the launch of the Space Shuttle Discovery at the Kennedy Space Center on October 29.
The White House also announced that the President will travel to New York City on October 30.
October 21
The President announced his intention to nominate Douglas L. Miller to be a member of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, flooding, and tornadoes beginning on October 17 and continuing.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Janez Drnovsek of Slovenia will make a working visit to Washington, DC, on November 4.
October 22
In the morning, the President traveled to Queenstown, MD, where he met with Prime Minister Netanyahu and Chairman Arafat in the main dining room at the Wye River Conference Center.
The President announced the recess appointment of Frederick L. Feinstein to serve as General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board.
October 23
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, where he participated in the Wye River Memorandum signing ceremony with Prime Minister Netanyahu, Chairman Arafat, and King Hussein I in the East Room.
In the evening, the President attended the Metropolitan AME Church 160th anniversary celebration at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Zvi Kastenbaum as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
  