
    
  Former Executive Director of the New Hampshire Republican Party Joins Thompson Campaign

McLean, VA - Fred Thompson's Presidential campaign announced today that Charlie Arlinghaus will be joining the campaign's New Hampshire operation as Senior Advisor.
Charlie Arlinghaus served as the Executive Director of the New Hampshire Republican Party from 1994-1996. From 1999-2002 he served as a Regional Political Director for the Republican National Committee and worked on Bruce Keough's 2002 Gubernatorial campaign and Senator John Sununu's 2002 Senate campaign. Since 2003, Arlinghaus has served as president of The Josiah Bartlett Center, a non-partisan, free market think tank. He writes a weekly column on public policy for The New Hampshire Union Leader. His policy research covers a broad range of state policy including health care, prescription drugs, tax and budget policy and education funding. He has been interviewed on public policy issues on the major domestic networks and in the 25 largest newspapers in the country. Arlinghaus holds degrees in American History from The College of William and Mary and The University of New Hampshire.
"Senator Fred Thompson has the conservative values and principled leadership that we need in the White House," said Charlie Arlinghaus. "He will fight to protect our free markets, keep our taxes low and provide for the safety of this nation in the face of growing global threats. Fred Thompson's message of smaller government and more personal freedoms is directly in line with the voters of the Granite State. I am honored to join his organization and look forward to spreading his message throughout New Hampshire."
"Charlie Arlinghaus is one of the brightest and most experienced political minds I've ever known," said Randy Enwright, National Political Director. "His experience and knowledge of New Hampshire specific issues will be a great asset to our organization in the 'first in the nation' state. We are very pleased to have him join our team."
  