
    Bill, former Governor Warren Knowles, Congressman Bill Steiger, Congressman Bob Kasten, Chairman George Parker, Senator Krueger, Representative Shabaz, National Committeeman Ody Fish, Finance Chairman Bill Messinger, Dinner Chairman Fran Furgeson, former Lieutenant Governor lack Olson, First Vice Chairman Alice Read, Second Vice Chairman Curtis McKay, Dorothy MacDonald, Reed Coleman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
That concludes my speech. Thank you very much. [Laughter]
Let me thank George Parker, most affectionately known as the State pen. [Laughter] I enjoyed the fact that George met me at the airport along with Ody Fish, but most importantly it is great to be back in Milwaukee again, particularly on the day before a favorite American event, Halloween.
In fact, on the way in from the airport I asked Ody Fish if there was any special way people in Milwaukee and particularly Wisconsin celebrated trick or treat. Ody said, "Well, for the treat we pretty much give out the traditional items like candy, apples, popcorn, things like that." I said here in Wisconsin do you have any special treats--or tricks I should say. He said, "Mr. President, only when the Democrats in the legislature work on the State budget." [Laughter]
Ody said this is one year Wisconsin Republicans could have used Houdini. He was an expert on getting through locked doors. [Laughter]
I commend everyone in the Republican Party, particularly the Republican State legislators, for the battle you have fought this year with the Democrats against secrecy and for openness in government. Congratulations.
Since this is our Bicentennial year, let's remember that the history of the United States and the Republican Party are closely linked. No history of America can be written without that of our Republican Party. We have over 100 years of sound principle and good people, and we should be darn proud of it.
You here in Wisconsin know better than anyone for much of the groundwork of the Republican Party was laid right here in Ripon in 1854. Of course, I better mention Jackson, Michigan, for some very obvious reasons. [Laughter] But tonight I want to talk with you not only of our common heritage but our common journey into the future; not only of the proud principles of our Nation's past but of those upon which we must build for the future.
There is an increasing expression in America today that the beliefs and the values of our past are no longer relevant to our present nor to our future. Some suggest that America has seen its best days, that our decline has started, that the quality of life in America is sliding downhill, that our economy is on the skids, that the values most of us hold high are out and the new counter-culture is in.
To that I say, nonsense--with emphasis. And to those who would write a sell fulfilling prophesy of doom for this country, I say you are out of step with the vast majority of Americans, Americans who believe in this country and in themselves, and they are proud of our country and they are proud of themselves and their families.
Let me make certain there is no misunderstanding. I did not take the sacred oath of President to preside over the decline and fall of the United States of America. I totally reject the scenarios of pessimism. I have no sympathy with those who have a self-destruct attitude for this great country.
Instead, I look to the future of America, a future which will be built upon a proud past. I look to a nation that was not only able to conquer the challenges but provide its citizens with unmatched personal fulfillment by the year 2000.
Only a short 25 years from now, I see America, whose citizens reside in a community of peace with other nations; share the still highest standard of living in the world; live longer because killer diseases have been conquered and the quality of life enhanced; and enjoy opportunities and housing and education and jobs limited only by their personal initiatives and long-range objectives; experience individual liberties and freedoms which have not only been secured but expanded; whose citizens share a national will and spirit which is still climbing as this Nation moves well into its third century.
To make this vision come true, we must return government to sound, responsible Republican principles. And we will. We must elect to your State and local offices and to the Congress responsive and responsible Republican candidates who believe as we do and who share our collective objectives.
The battlelines for 1976 are being drawn between these opposing forces:
Between those who believe in fiscal responsibility and those who believe every problem will go away if we just threw enough tax money at it.
Between those who believe in a strong national defense is the best insurance of peace and those who would spend your tax money instead for controversial social experiments.
Between those who believe in local control over local problems and those who believe Uncle Sam should help solve all problems individually and collectively.
Between those who believe that American business should be unshackled from Government overregulation so it can expand the economy and create jobs and those who believe Federal papershufflers know what is best for America and for its business community.
Between those who believe in the expansion of individual freedom and liberty and those who believe in big government and that it should direct people's lives. That is a fundamental issue.
Let me emphasize 1976 is more than an election year. It is also a year of decision for all Republicans. It is the Republican Party's golden opportunity to prove to all that it has the strength to survive setbacks, the resolution to rouse the Nation's greatness, and the will to win elections. We can do it, and we will do it.
But to make this proof secure, we Republicans must make some practical changes in our political ways; not in principles, but in approaches.
We must discard the attitude of exclusiveness that has kept the Republican Party's door closed while we make speeches about keeping it open. We must invite into our ranks all who care about the great country in which we live and all who share our goals enough to work through the Republican Party to achieve them.
We must build, step by step, a party that works year round and not just at election time. Most important, we must emphasize our differences with Democrats rather than with each other. We must concentrate on winning elections instead of arguments.
As we look toward 1976---and what a year to have before us--the apathy and the cynicism which have overtaken some Americans must be overcome by offering candidates of outstanding ability and rock-hard integrity.
We must develop programs that are forward looking and problemsolving, and we must elect a Congress that will carry them out, and we will.
In Bill Steiger and Bob Kasten you have got quality, but we need a lot more quantity from Wisconsin. Isn't that right?
I proposed to the 94th Congress--that is the one in session now, or I guess it is in session--[laughter]--some people say it has been more out of session than in, but I wouldn't allege that--but I proposed to the 94th Congress a permanent annual cut in your Federal tax bill of $28 billion and a corresponding cut in the growth of Federal spending of the same amount.
But all I get, so far, from this Democrat-dominated, "Can't Do Congress" is it can't be done. I say it can, it will, and it must be done this year. If this Congress isn't capable of doing the job, let's elect a Republican Congress that can and will.
America's vitality, its prosperity have been sapped by the irresponsible spending of this Congress, which is controlled 2 to 1 by the Democrats, and a previous Congress, which has been controlled by Democrats for 38 out of the last 42 years.
I might add, parenthetically, for 33 out of those 38 years, there have been deficits which have run up the cost of living and run down the value of the dollars that you earn by the sweat of your brow.
Under the Democratic spenders, the Federal budget for the first time in our history topped $100 billion in 1962. It doubled to $200 billion 8 years later and will more than double again to $423 billion in this coming fiscal year unless we get some action.
Let me emphasize, the $28 billion reduction in taxes which I proposed must be accompanied by equally substantial cuts in the growth of Federal spending. This means the spending ceiling must be $395 billion. That is adequate to meet our needs both at home and abroad, and we must get that ceiling, period. We will keep a scorecard on those that don't vote for it.
You know that under the laws Democratic Congresses have already written-they are piled high in statute books--without a single new appropriation or program, and despite everything I can do as President by vetoing further increases, our Federal expenditures will increase next year by $50 billion. That is just growth.
I was in California the other day, and the growth in the Federal budget in 12 months is five times the annual budget of the State of California. Something is wrong.
The Democrats in Congress don't like my vetoes, but these vetoes have already saved taxpayers some $6½ billion. I will go on vetoing unwise, unnecessary spending bills again and again and again and again. I will do it as long as it saves you money, but more importantly, it saves our Nation's future, and that is the crux of the battle we are facing at the present time.
What concerns me most is what I see as government without consent, the increasing encroachment of government in our lives and in our future, the irresponsible government action on the local as well as the national level.
Let's make sure we understand each other. It is neither responsible nor compassionate to spend a city or a nation into bankruptcy.
I am going to say this quietly--[laughter]--I can assure you this President will never allow the doors of the United States Treasury to be flung open to every city with a hole in its fiscal pocket.
I suspect some of you know I spoke to this problem yesterday. I said that if the Federal Government goes on spending more than it has, providing more benefits and services than it can pay for, then a day of reckoning will ultimately come to Washington and to our entire country just as it has to New York City. And tonight let me ask each of you and all of you collectively the same ominous question I asked in Washington little over 24 hours ago. When that day of reckoning comes, who will bail out the United States?
Believe me, it is neither responsible nor compassionate to erode the value of people's hard-earned money through inflation by piling Government spending on spending, program on program without the revenues to pay for them. This is not compassion; this is pure and simple irresponsibility.
I know it, you know it, and 214 million Americans know it through the length and the breadth of this great country. And by this time next year we should make darn sure every responsible voter knows who did it and who didn't do it.
The message of the Republican Party and what it stands for must be carried to all of the American people. We must let people know that this is the party of openness, the Republican Party, an open party that insists on open government. And that is precisely what you are doing here in Wisconsin, and I congratulate your legislative leaders. For the young and old, rich and poor, black and white, Independents, and discerning, and, yes, deserted Democrats--for all of these Americans and more, we have something in this great party to offer them.
We are the party of principles, not pessimism; the party of answers and solutions, not the disseminators of doubt and despair; the party of reason, responsibility, and restraint, not the party that purveys promises which can't be kept or programs which can't be achieved.
Responsibility--that is the key word, one we equate with Republicanism, and we have a record on this point that Republicans can stand on with pride.
But we are not only a party of principles, we are a party of people. And this magnificent demonstration here tonight proves it beyond any question. You can be missionaries in every one of the 71 counties in the great State of Wisconsin. You can say with conviction that principles can be converted into action only when they are supported by a majority of the people.
We must bring people and principles together across our land in Wisconsin and 49 other States. That is the answer to the pessimists, the doom pushers of today. We believe in people, and we believe in principles.
The Republican Party's goal is to unite the American people in the principles that made our Nation great over a period of almost 200 years.
In the first hundred years of our Nation's history, we developed a form of government that provided more liberty, more opportunity for more people than any nation in the history of mankind.
In the second hundred years of our Nation's history, we developed an industrial and agricultural capacity unmatched in the history of this great globe.
In our third century, we must dedicate ourselves to expanding the opportunity for freedom and liberty, individuality, yes, and the Republican Party can be the mechanism for that.
In 1976, together we can celebrate a great victory with those principles and those people, a joint victory--not merely for the party, believe me, but for the people of the United States.
Thank you very much.
  