
    "I am honored to receive the endorsement of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT). I want to thank AFT Vice Officers Nat LaCour and Antonia Cortese, and the 1.4 million members and retireees of this great union who represent teachers; paraprofessionals and school-related personnel; local, state and federal employees; higher education faculty and staff; and nurses and other health care professionals. Your support and leadership will be invaluable to the success of my campaign.
"I want to especially recognize Ed McElroy for his leadership. For over 40 years, Ed has been a proud trade unionist and champion for teachers, students, and the basic ideal that all children have the right to a good education. I am grateful for his efforts, not only on behalf of my campaign, but for his service to America.
"Teachers are on the frontlines of shaping the minds of our next generation. With every child they teach, teachers help to ensure a brighter future for our country. In welcoming every child through your doors, in giving every child a chance to succeed, it's our public schools and teachers that transform that rhetoric into reality every single day. Throughout my 35 years of working on education, I've seen the dedication that American teachers demonstrate day in and day out. That is why as President, I want to be partners with teachers, parents, and administrators to improve our education system. As President, I am committed to improving and strengthening our public schools, providing support for our teachers, and ensuring our education system is able to meet the needs of the global economy and that we have common sense laws that make that possible.
"In addition, I look forward to working with you to ensure that all Americans have affordable, quality health insurance. My plan will rein in costs, insist on value and quality, and ensure choice in health coverage for every American.
"Working together with you, I will also protect the right of workers to organize and bargain collectively, strengthen the defined benefit pension system, and invest in job creation and worker training. I will sign the Employee Free Choice Act into law because I believe the right to organize is a fundamental right in this country.
"Expanding opportunity for our children has been my life's work, and it will be the work of my Presidency. I will keep seeking you out and working in partnership with you to do what's best for our children, best for our educators, and best for the future of our country."
  