
    Dellums Named National Chair of Campaign's Urban Policy Committee
Citing her understanding of the challenges of urban communities, and her commitment to forging a partnership between federal and local governments, Oakland Mayor Ron Dellums today endorsed Hillary Clinton for President. The endorsement came as Senator Clinton and Mayor Dellums visited a vocational classroom at Laney College in Oakland, where Clinton announced that Mayor Dellums will serve as National Chair of the Clinton Campaign's Urban Policy Committee.
"Senator Clinton has been fighting for working families for decades. Her commitment to urban communities and her belief that the federal government must build strong partnerships have earned her my support and endorsement," said Mayor Dellums. "I thought long and hard about this decision and have concluded that our country needs Hillary's strength and experience to lead us forward. I stand with her today, shoulder-to-shoulder, ready to help her win not only the nomination but the Presidency of the United States."
As Chair of the Urban Policy Committee, Mayor Dellums will advise Senator Clinton on issues critical to America's cities. He will provide counsel to address the many complex issues facing local leaders including public safety, high dropout rates among teens, a shortage of well paying jobs and lack of adequate health care.
"I am honored to receive the support of my long-time friend Mayor Ron Dellums. He is a national leader who has been widely recognized for his creative solutions and innovative approaches to the challenges facing our cities. By working with Mayor Dellums I know that we will improve the lives of the families that live in urban areas," said Clinton. "I am delighted that Mayor Dellums will advise my campaign on urban issues."
Earlier this year, Senator Clinton unveiled her urban agenda and outlined her plan at the U.S. Conference of Mayors in Los Angeles. The policy plan she unveiled includes key components found in the Dellums Commission and underscores the shared approach by the two leaders to the challenges that urban areas face.
An Oakland native, Ron Dellums grew up on Wood Street in West Oakland, attended Oakland schools and graduated from Oakland Tech, Merritt College (AA), SF State (BA), and UC Berkeley (MSW). He served two years active duty in the United States Marine Corps. In 1967, he was elected to the Berkeley City Council and in 1970 to the US House of Representatives. As a member of Congress he represented Oakland, Berkeley, and the surrounding areas for 28 years, rising to become Chair of the House DC Committee and later Chair of the House Armed Services Committee.
In addition to representing his district's views in the Congress, Mayor Dellums was exceptionally effective in bringing home substantial federal funds for the benefit of Oakland. His achievements included: the dredging of Oakland's harbors indispensable for maintaining the competitiveness of Oakland as a major port, while restoring wetlands; bringing jobs and anchoring downtown development with the new Federal Building and related development; the creation and development of the Chabot Space and Science Center; as well as monies for BART, AC Transit, health centers, HIV/AIDS programs, senior housing, and for the economic conversion of the Naval Air Station and Oakland Army Base.
In 2006 he was elected Mayor of Oakland, receiving more than 50 percent of the vote. He was sworn into office on Jan. 1st, 2007.
  