
    Today I have signed into law H.R. 2519, the "Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994." This Act provides funding for the Departments of Commerce, Justice, and State, the Judiciary, and several smaller agencies.
Funding for the Department of Commerce is $3.6 billion. This funding demonstrates the importance of our efforts to promote this Nation's economic growth through high-priority investment programs in the Department of Commerce. It will help Commerce to build a stronger, more competitive private sector, able to maintain U.S. leadership in critical world markets. In particular, I am pleased that the Congress has provided increased funding for the Advanced Technology Program, the Manufacturing Extension Partnership Program, and the new "Information Highway" program. The additional funding for these programs is a critical element of my strategy to create high-wage jobs, strengthen America's technological leadership, and increase our long-run productivity and standard of living. In addition, I am pleased that the Congress provided funds for defense conversion to address the economic dislocation resulting from the end of the Cold War.
The Act also provides funding for a number of high-priority investment initiatives within the Department of Justice. For example, funds are provided for hiring new police officers. This investment will assist in putting new police officers on the streets of America in an effort to take back our neighborhoods from crime and drugs.
In addition, I am pleased that this Act provides significant additional resources to implement my Immigration Initiative, transmitted to the Congress on August 31. These funds will support efforts to provide a fair and effective immigration policy.
Finally, I am pleased the Congress has appropriated funds necessary to support many of our efforts to strengthen our security by promoting democracy abroad, such as through the National Endowment for Democracy. I am deeply concerned, however, about the reductions that were made to my request for payments to international organizations and peacekeeping activities. My Administration is committed to working with the Congress to enable the United States to meet our treaty obligations. Also, I take note of the language in the Joint Explanatory Statement of the Committee of Conference regarding congressional notification, where practicable, 15 days in advance of a U.S. vote in the U.N. Security Council to establish any new or expanded peacekeeping operation. I understand the importance of timely consultation with the Congress, but note that the notification suggested by the Congress may not always be practicable.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, October 27, 1993.
  