
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced DuPage County, Illinois endorsements. Joining Team Rudy are DuPage County Sheriff John Zaruba, DuPage Clerk of the Circuit Court Chris Kachiroubas and DuPage County Board Chairman Bob Schillerstrom. These endorsements come just as Mayor Giuliani makes a visit to the county tomorrow.
Zaruba, Schillerstrom and Kachiroubas join a growing list of DuPage supporters, including State Senator Christine Radogno, DuPage County State's Attorney Joseph Birkett, and State Representatives Bob Biggins, Franco Coladipiertro and Dennis Reboletti.
"There is no candidate who has been tougher on crime and is more committed to making our communities safer than Rudy Giuliani," said Sherriff Zaruba. "I'm supporting Mayor Giuliani because he proved he can get results."
"Community leaders, elected officials and voters all over the state of Illinois are embracing Mayor Giuliani's strong leadership and bold vision for America," said Giuliani's State Chairman Tom Cross. "Illinois is going to have a voice in determining the Republican nominee, which is why I'm excited by the strong organizational support for the Mayor across the state."
About Rudy's DuPage County Supporters:
Sheriff John Zaruba
Sheriff Zaruba is a lifelong resident of DuPage County. He has been a member of the DuPage County Sheriff's Office since 1974, was appointed Sheriff in April of 1997 and was elected to the office in 1998 and 2002 by the citizens of DuPage County. He has worked in nearly every facet of the office, including corrections, court security, patrol, accreditation and planning and research.
Chris Kachiroubas
Kachiroubas serves as the Clerk of the 18th Judicial Circuit Court, which is the second largest court system in Illinois. Since 2004, when Kachiroubas became Clerk, he has made public service and access to the Court's record his number one priority. He continues to focus on reducing customer wait times, increasing the use of technology supporting the court cases and has eliminated labor intensive processes.
Bob Schillerstrom
Schillerstrom, as the County Board Chairman, serves as the chief operating officer of the County Board, supervising the implementation of the Board's policies and programs. Schillerstrom prepares the proposed annual budget, makes committee assignments, appoints committee chairmen and recommends new and special committees as the need arises.
* Title and affiliation of each individual listed for identification purposes only
  