
    President Biden continues ushering in an American manufacturing boom. Today, President Biden announced $2.8 billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law for 20 companies across 12 states to expand domestic manufacturing of batteries for electric vehicles. These investments will lower costs for consumers, create good-paying construction and manufacturing jobs, bolster our domestic supply chains, and increase energy security.
The Administration also announced the American Battery Materials Initiative, a new effort to mobilize the entire government in securing a reliable and sustainably-sourced supply of critical minerals used for power, batteries, and electric vehicles.
Together, these efforts will further America's manufacturing boom and bring us closer to President Biden's goal of making 50 percent of all new vehicle sales are electric by 2030 – all while creating jobs, lowering costs, and making more in America.
Read below for national coverage of the battery announcement:
Associated Press: US awards $2.8B in grants for EV batteries in 12 statesThe announcement comes as the administration seeks to boost production and sales of electric vehicles as a key part of President Joe Biden's strategy to slow climate change and build up U.S. manufacturing. Biden has vowed to boost U.S. production of lithium and other critical minerals, and the sweeping climate and health-care law passed in August includes several provisions to boost electric vehicles, including tax credits for EV buyers worth up to $7,500.
CNBC: Biden awards $2.8 billion for projects to boost electric vehicle battery manufacturing"Producing advanced batteries and components here at home will accelerate the transition away from fossil fuels to meet the strong demand for electric vehicles, creating more good-paying jobs across the country," Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm said in a statement. The projects will support developing enough lithium to supply about 2 million EVs per year, developing enough graphite to supply about 1.2 million EVs per year and producing enough nickel to supply about 400,000 EVs per year, according to the Energy Department.
Reuters: Biden awards $2.8 billion to boost U.S. minerals output for EV batteriesTalon Metals Corp (TLO.TO) will receive $114.8 million to build a processing plant in North Dakota in a strategy shift for the company, which has a nickel supply deal with Tesla Inc (TSLA.O). Talon now aims to extract rock from its planned underground mine in Minnesota and ship it to a North Dakota processing facility that will be funded in part by the grant. Talon said the grants are "a clear recognition that production of domestic nickel and other battery minerals is a national priority."
CNN: Biden announces $2.8 billion in grants for US battery supply chainsAnother senior administration official pressed that the funding will move US away from dependence China for these minerals, suggesting the effort builds more broadly on building supply chains resilient from autocracies… The official continued, "As the world transitions from a fossil fuel to a clean energy-powered economy, we cannot trade dependence on oil from autocrats like (Russian President Vladimir) Putin to dependence on critical minerals from China."
Wall Street Journal: Biden Administration's Battery Bets Boost Startup StocksShares of battery materials startups like Microvast and Piedmont Lithium are rising Wednesday after the Biden administration said it is putting $2.8 billion into 21 projects to kickstart U.S. manufacturing of vital components that power electric cars.
Bloomberg Law: Energy Department Awards $2.8 Billion to EV Battery SuppliersThe Biden administration on Wednesday rolled out $2.8 billion in grants for 20 manufacturing and processing companies with projects in 12 states to bolster the U.S. battery supply chain—an initiative to wean off imports of minerals and components from countries deemed as having unreliable supply chains. The round of funding is the first phase of a larger $7 billion Energy Department battery supply chain program established by the bipartisan infrastructure law
Yahoo Finance/Newsfile Corp: Talon Metals Battery Minerals Processing Facility Selected by US Department of Energy for $114 Million in Bipartisan Infrastructure Law FundingTalon Metals Corp [...] has been informed that its wholly-owned subsidiary, Talon Nickel (USA) LLC, has been selected as a recipient of the first set of projects funded by President Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to expand domestic manufacturing of batteries for electric vehicles (EVs) and the electrical grid and for materials and components currently imported from other countries. Responsible and sustainable domestic sourcing and processing of the critical materials used to make lithium-ion batteries will strengthen American supply chains, accelerate battery production to meet increased demand, and secure the nation's economic competitiveness, energy independence, and national security.
Benzinga: Cirba Solutions Receives $75 Million Grant Funded by Biden's Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to Boost Recycling Capacity of Lithium-ion BatteriesCirba Solutions will receive approximately $75 million in federal funds to expand critical mineral upgrading assets at its lithium-ion processing facility in Lancaster, Ohio. At full operation, the estimated 150,000-square-foot facility will produce enough battery-grade critical minerals used in cathode production to power more than 200,000 new electric vehicles (EVs) annually. It will also create and additional estimated 150 jobs to the greater Lancaster area.
Washington Examiner: Biden rolls out nearly $3 billion in new electric vehicle grants ahead of electionThis tranche of funds, allocated by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, will be awarded to 20 battery manufacturing and processing plants in 12 different states: Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, Louisiana, Missouri, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Tennessee, and Washington. Michigan, where the president has repeatedly traveled to and touted as the center of the EV revolution, was not awarded new grants Wednesday.
Tech Crunch: DOE awards $2.8B to battery companies to boost domestic productionThis is the first phase of $7 billion in total from President Biden's Infrastructure Law that aims to strengthen domestic battery supply chains and reduce reliance on China for battery supply and production as more vehicles become electrified. The companies getting funds will work to extract and process lithium, graphite and other battery materials, manufacture components and demonstrate new ways of acquiring critical materials, including battery recycling, domestically or within free trade agreement countries, the DOE said.
Read below for local coverage: 
Alabama
AL.com: Alabama among 12 states sharing $2.8 billion for electric vehicle batteriesAlabama is one of 12 states receiving $2.8 billion in grants in a new Biden Administration program to support the making of batteries for electric vehicles… The program is in line with a goal set by President Joe Biden of electric vehicles comprising half of all new vehicles sold being electric by the year 2030, and recent string of executive initiatives to speed charging stations and improve America's supply of materials for batteries.
Georgia
The Augusta Chronicle: Augusta polymers plant wins $178 million grant to build electric-vehicle battery partsAn Augusta polymers plant has received a $178 million federal grant to build a companion facility to produce battery components for electric vehicles. The proposed new plant could bring as many as 500 construction jobs and 100 manufacturing jobs to the Augusta area, U.S. Sen Raphael Warnock's office announced in a statement Wednesday… "Georgia is open for business, and today's announcement is good news for both Georgia's growing clean energy economy and Augusta workers," Warnock said in a statement Wednesday.
Louisiana
Lafayette Daily Advertiser: Louisiana EV battery industry footprint expanding with infrastructure bill fundingLouisiana has secured $320 million from the 2021 Infrastructure Act to boost lithium-ion battery related production at the Syrah Technologies facility in Vidalia and the Koura facility in St. Gabriel that will elevate the state's footprint in the electric vehicle supply chain as well as other consumer electronics, the White House announced Wednesday..."It's a big, big deal," Republican Louisiana U.S. Sen. Bill Cassidy said in an interview with USA Today Network. "We've got to create an economy that positions Louisiana for the next three decades. "While we remain a leader in the oil and gas energy sector, these kind of investments position us for the emerging energy economies of the future."
Missouri
KTVI (Fox St. Louis, MO): $430M factory in south St. Louis will produce component of lithium batteriesSt. Louis will be at the forefront of a $2.8 billion expansion of domestic manufacturing of batteries for electric vehicles and the nation's electrical grid. A multinational chemical, fertilizer, and mineral manufacturer is making a big investment in south St. Louis, spurred on by federal investment. ICL, formerly Israel Chemicals Ltd., will build the first lithium iron phosphate (LFP) cathode plant in the United States in the Carondelet neighborhood. The company is investing more than $232 million, with an additional $197 million coming from the U.S. Department of Energy, via the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
St. Louis Post-Dispatch: New $400M plant to support EV battery production slated for St. Louis' Cardondelet areaA new $400 million plant to support production of electric vehicle batteries will be built in the city's Carondelet neighborhood as part of a $2.8-billion nationwide initiative announced Wednesday by the Biden administration. ICL-IP America Inc. is getting a $197 million Department of Energy grant to help pay for the 120,000-square-foot facility at the company's existing campus at Germania Street and Primm Avenue. About 150 professional and union jobs will be added, the company said in a news release.
Nevada
KOLO (ABC Reno, NV): Biden admin invests $57 million into northern Nevada for green energyThe Biden administration has announced a $57 million investment into northern Nevada and more than $100 million into Nevada as a whole for bolstering domestic manufacturing of lithium batteries.
North Carolina
Barrons: Lithium Miner Albemarle Is Getting Cash From U.S. in Push for Battery MaterialsThe Biden administration want to bring the production and processing of critical materials in the electric- vehicle supply chain back to the U.S. It's starting to spend money to make that happen. Wednesday, the lithium mining company Albemarle (ticker: ALB) said it is getting $150 million from the Energy Department. That is part of the money from President Joe Biden's recently passed infrastructure law. Albemarle will use the money to build a lithium concentrator at its Kings Mountain, North Carolina, mine.
North Dakota
The Dakotan: Battery Minerals Processing Facility for Mercer County "We've worked hard in North Dakota to create a stable tax and regulatory environment that attracts capital and talent, and today's announcement that Talon Metals plans to create 150 jobs and invest more than $400 million in a battery minerals processing facility sends a strong signal that North Dakota is open for business," [Governor] Burgum said. "By increasing domestic production of nickel and other battery minerals and reducing our reliance on foreign sources, we can strengthen our economy, our communities and our national security while continuing to grow North Dakota's status as a powerhouse for the nation. We appreciate the U.S. Department of Energy selecting Talon's proposed facility for a $114 million cost-share grant through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to support the project, as well as Talon's commitment to working with local communities to ensure the project has broad support."
Forum News Service (Also in Jamestown Sun): Biden awards $115M to build North Dakota plant to process minerals for electric car batteriesFederal and state officials unveiled a plan on Wednesday, Oct. 19, to create a mineral processing plant in central North Dakota that would supply car brand Tesla with materials needed to create electric vehicle batteries. The proposed facility slated for Mercer County is one of 21 projects announced Wednesday to be awarded federal funding by President Joe Biden's administration. The plant would be operated by Minnesota-based Talon Metals, but funds from a massive federal infrastructure package passed last year would cover about $115 million of the $433 million needed to build the project.
Grand Forks Herald: Biden awards $115M to build North Dakota plant to process minerals for electric car batteriesFederal and state officials unveiled a plan on Wednesday, Oct. 19, to create a mineral processing plant in central North Dakota that would supply car brand Tesla with materials needed to create electric vehicle batteries. The proposed facility slated for Mercer County is one of 21 projects announced Wednesday to be awarded federal funding by President Joe Biden's administration.
The Jamestown Sun: Proposed North Dakota plant to process ingredients for Tesla electric car batteriesThe proposed facility slated for Mercer County is one of 21 projects announced Wednesday to be awarded federal funding by President Joe Biden's administration. The plant would be operated by Minnesota-based Talon Metals, but funds from a massive federal infrastructure package passed last year would cover about $115 million of the $433 million needed to build the project. The facility would create an estimated 150 jobs, and the company has inked an agreement with the United Steelworkers Union to provide labor, according to a news release.
Pennsylvania 
The Philadelphia Inquirer: Biden administration awards $2.8B in grants for EV batteries in 12 stateshe Biden administration on Wednesday awarded $2.8 billion in grants to boost domestic manufacturing of batteries for electric vehicles in 12 states. A total of 20 companies will receive grants for projects to extract and process lithium, graphite and other battery materials, manufacture components and strengthen U.S. supply of critical minerals, officials said. The announcement came as the administration seeks to boost production and sales of electric vehicles as a key part of President Joe Biden's strategy to slow climate change and build up U.S. manufacturing.
Tennessee
WTVC (ABC Chattanooga, TN): Chattanooga EV battery company to get $150M in federal grantsA Chattanooga electric vehicle (EV) battery production facility is one of several across the country to be awarded millions of dollars in grants, the Biden administration announced Wednesday. NOVONIX, which opened a facility on Chattanooga's Riverfront Parkway last year, is one of 20 companies that will receive grants for projects to extract and process lithium, graphite and other battery materials, manufacture components and strengthen U.S. supply of critical minerals, officials said.
Washington
KHQ (NBC Spokane, WA): President Biden to award grants from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to manufacturing companies in Moses LakeToday, the United States Department of Energy (DOE) announced its awarding $2.8 billion in grants to 20 manufacturing and processing companies in 12 states, including Washington. Our Right Now reporter Bradley Warren sat down with the White House to discuss the grants given to manufacturing and processing companies across the nation.Two manufacturing and processing companies in Moses lake, Sila and Group14 Technologies, will each receive $100 million.
The Seattle Times: Feds award WA companies $200 million for new EV battery facilities in Moses LakeAs the Biden administration doles out federal funding for the development of electric vehicles, two companies have been granted a hefty sum for their pursuit of cutting-edge battery technology in Moses Lake. The U.S. Department of Energy announced Wednesday it would provide $100 million each to Group14 Technologies and Sila Nanotechnologies for their ongoing development of silicon anodes, which could serve as a cheaper, more efficient and domestically sourced alternative to the graphite anodes typically used in electric vehicle (EV) batteries. Both companies have plans to build new manufacturing facilities in Moses Lake, the largest city in Grant County, within the next decade.
  