
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

When you ask a group of youngsters what each would like to be when he or she grows up, frequently, at least one will reply: "a fireman!" Even though the aspirations of youth often change over time, it is, nonetheless, a very telling answer. Children as well as adults recognize the extraordinary courage of firefighters -- and the tremendous importance of their work. On this occasion, Americans of all ages join in paying grateful tribute to the heroic individuals who serve our Nation as professional and volunteer firefighters.
The responsibilities of a firefighter often entail considerable personal risk and sacrifice. In addition to enduring what are sometimes long and unpredictable hours -- a burden shared by the loved ones who must cope with worry and waiting -- firefighters are frequently called to put themselves in harm's way to protect the lives and the property of others. Today we remember in a special way those firefighters who have perished in the line of duty. Their great sacrifice underscores the risks that firefighters accept, each and every day, for our sake.
Professional and volunteer firefighters not only bring prompt, highly skilled assistance to victims of fire and other emergencies but also play a leading role in promoting public safety. Through schools and community programs across the country, firefighters are helping to educate the public -- in particular, children -- about ways to avoid fire and safety hazards. They are also teaching individuals what to do if an emergency strikes. Many firefighters who are also trained as paramedics and emergency medical technicians are helping to save lives by instructing citizens in first aid -- including cardiopulmonary resuscitation.
In recognition of the lifesaving work of our Nation's firefighters, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 189, has designated October 8, 1991, as "National Firefighters Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 8, 1991, as National Firefighters Day. I encourage all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  