
    Pool Reports by Jeff Mordock, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




October 15, 202110:06

In-Town Pool Report #1 -- Checking In 
Good morning from the White House. It is an absolutely gorgeous October day here in Washington with warm temperatures and lots of leaves falling from trees on the White House campus.
I'll be your In-town pooler today, both masked and tested.
Per WHite House there is no change to POTUS schedule, which is below.
9:30 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily BriefClosed Press
9:45 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call TimeJoint Base Andrews Visitor Control Center Overhang
10:15 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
11:00 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Joint Base AndrewsSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Final Gather 10:45 AM – Palm Room Doors)
11:20 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Windsor Locks, ConnecticutJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
12:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Windsor Locks, ConnecticutBradley International Airport, Windsor Locks, ConnecticutOpen Press
12:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Windsor Locks, Connecticut en route Hartford, ConnecticutBradley International Airport, Windsor Locks, ConnecticutOpen Press
12:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Hartford, ConnecticutHartford-Brainard Airport, Hartford, ConnecticutOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks promoting his Build Back Better Agenda and highlighting the importance of investing in child care to keep costs down for working familiesHartford, ConnecticutOut-of-Town Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media Coverage
2:35 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Hartford, Connecticut en route Storrs, ConnecticutHartford-Brainard Airport, Hartford, ConnecticutOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
2:50 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Storrs, ConnecticutStorrs, ConnecticutOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks at the dedication of the Dodd Center for Human Rights at the University of ConnecticutUniversity of Connecticut, Storrs, ConnecticutOut-of-Town Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media Coverage
5:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Storrs, Connecticut en route Bradley International AirportStorrs, ConnecticutOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
5:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Windsor Locks, Connecticut en route Joint Base AndrewsBradley International Airport, Windsor Locks, ConnecticutOpen Press
6:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
6:50 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route The White HouseJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool Coverage
7:00 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Final Gather 6:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)



October 15, 202111:10

In-Town Pool Report #2 -- Marine One Departure 
Marine One departed White House South Lawn at 11:09.
POTUS didn't take reporters' questions shouted at him, but waved and smiled as he walked towards Marine One. He was wearing a dark suit and white shirt.
Handing off to out-of-town pooler. I'll rejoin you when POTUS returns this evening.
Per White House, here is who is traveling with POTUS on Marine One to Joint Base Andrews:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Joint Base Andrews:

Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Middle East & North Africa, NSC
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President




October 15, 202112:06

In-Town Pool Report #3 
Two-minute warning to AF1 press gaggle
You can stream it here
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



October 15, 202118:42

In-Town Pool Report #4 -- Arrival 
Marine One touched down at 6:36 pm.
The president waived and answered a few questions from reporters. Transcript coming soon.
Per the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to the South Lawn

Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Middle East & North Africa, NSC
Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President




October 15, 202119:11

In-Town Travel Report #5 --- Fuller Qoutes 
Here are fuller quotes from POTUS gaggle with reporters after departing Marine One
As always check against the official transcript:
When asked what should happen to those who defy subpoenas from the Jan. 6 Committee
"I hope the committee goes after them and holds them accountable."
When asked if the Justice Department should prosecute those who defy subpoenas, he said "I do."
Asked if he supports term limits on the Supreme Court, POTUS responded, "No."
POTUS said he's looking forward to seeing the pope, saying "we've corresponded." When asked if the correspondence was recent, POTUS said, "No. Since Beau died."
Asked if port bottlenecks will impact the economy, the president appeared to mishear the question and said, "No problem. You know that. What a question."
When the question was repeated, POTUS said "They have an impact on it because of COVID. We've got to catch up."
Asked if he could bring Sens. Manchin and Sanders together to resolve their differences, POTUS laughed and said, "No problem. Not a problem."
On his economic agenda, POTUS said he's "working hard to get it moving." When asked if there was a deadline, POTUS responded "No."
POTUS was also asked a question about COVID-19 vaccines and Mexcio that your pool could not hear clearly. He responded by saying, "I need to talk with my medical experts. I don't know enough about it."



October 15, 202119:12

In-Town Pool Report #6 --- Lid Called 
A travel/photo lid called at 6:47. Enjoy your weekend.
It was a pleasure to be your pooler.




 
Pool Reports below by Noah Robertson, The Christian Science Monitor



Sent:
Reports:




October 15, 202111:26

Travel Pool Report #1 | JBA Arrival and Departure
Good morning from JBA!
President Biden touched down at 11:17 a.m. on Marine 1, en route to Connecticut to pitch his Build Back Better agenda and visit the University of Connecticut's Dodd Center for Human Rights.
He exited Marine 1 at 11:20 wearing a blue tie, blue suit and a black mask, which he removed once outside. (Picture below) He greeted Col. Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing, saluted, and waved to the pool. He ignored a question shouted above the plane's noise and ascended the stairs, pausing at the top to salute and wave to the pool once more.
We're now taxiing on AF1 at 11:25.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle mid flight. It'll be available to stream at afl/WH.gov/live.
From the WH Press Office:
"Traveling with the President to Hartford and Storrs, Connecticut:
· Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff· Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for the Middle East & North Africa, NSC· Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary· Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations· Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President· Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director· Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Sr Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives, NSC· Jeff Nussbaum, Special Assistant to the President & Sr Presidential Speechwriter· Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning· Michael Hochman, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Staff Secretary· Alicia Molt-West, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Greeting the President at Joint Base Andrews:· Col. Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing"



October 15, 202112:40

Travel Pool Report #2 | CT Arrival
Touchdown at Bradley International Airport in Windsor Locks, CT at 12:23 pm.
Karine gaggled for about 20 minutes aboard the flight, including during the landing as the pool held on to ask a few more questions. Topics covered immigration (Remain in Mexico Protocol), President Biden's trip to see the pope, the negotiations in Congress, and the importance of this trip.
President Biden exited AF1 at 12:35 with a group of military personnel and local reporters stationed behind a fence nearby. He greeted Col. Stephen R. Gwinn, 103rd Airlift Wing Commander (per White House), with a salute and a smile. The president removed his black mask, though not his sunglasses, and tapped the colonel on his arm before turning to board Marine 1. He didn't stop by the pool.
Lifting off in Ospreys for a short flight to Hartford at 12:41.
From the WH:
"Greeting the President upon arrival at Bradley International Airport:

Colonel Stephen R. Gwinn, 103rd Airlift Wing Commander"




October 15, 202113:01

Travel Pool Report #3 | Here in Hartford & Rolling
The POTUS exited Marine 1 at Hartford's Brainard Airport at 12:55. He spoke for a few minutes, with slight applause and some laughter, to the group of pols (listed below). He put his mask on before boarding the motorcade.
There are private planes and storage containers nearby. The airport restaurant is advertising a new bar and grill opening this year.
The president is set to deliver remarks on childcare and his agenda at Capitol Child Development Center around 1:45.
We're in a bus making our way to the center at 1:00. Rolling.
From the White House:
"Greeting the President upon arrival at Hartford Brainard Airport:

Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont
Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal
Connecticut Senator Chris Murphy
Rep. John Larson (CT-01)
Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03)
Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02)
Rep. Jim Himes (CT-04)
Rep. Jahana Hayes (CT-05)
Hartford Mayor Luke Bronin"




October 15, 202113:20

Travel Pool Report #4 | Color and Arrival at Center
The President arrived at Capitol Child Development Center at 1:09, per the WH.
The pool's bus lost track of the front of the motorcade while driving and reunited with an SUV escort midway through the trip. There was a near accident while merging back onto the highway.
We're setting up for B roll and color next to the playground while waiting for remarks.
Some folks flying Trump flags ("Trump Won" "F*** Biden") waved hello outside the airport and filmed the motorcade with their phones. The large American flag at the bordering restaurant flew at half mast. Other locals took pictures with their phone at different curbs, sans flags.
Around 50 more Trump supporters, with similarly expressive signage gathered a street away from the center. They chanted "F*** Joe Biden. He's not our president." They also shouted "traitors" as a coda while we walked inside.



October 15, 202113:32

Travel Pool Report #5 | Center Arrival and pre-set
The president entered the playground at 1:25, greeted by some gregarious children. One gave him a hug, as he kneeled to talk. Another, wearing an American flag t-shirt, pointed out parts of the playground.
Some other kids stood elsewhere on the recess infrastructure, two holding a sign bidding "Welcome Joe Biden" with painted hand prints. The president took a picture with them. A hand-drawn poster spelling "Build Back Better" hung near the slide. Glitter, smiley faces, and pipe cleaners were attached.
From the playground the pool could still hear protesters chanting from the curb outside. More expletives. More yelling.
Also, my co-pooler pointed out more chants of "Ban Title 42" from outside, perhaps suggesting it wasn't a solely Trump-supporting crowd.
We're pre-set for the president's remarks in a room with bookshelves, stuffed animals and toys.



October 15, 202113:38

Travel Pool Report #6 | Remarks two minute warning
Two until the president speaks.
There's some artwork on the walls, some of it echoing "Build Back Better." Eponymous signs hang on the bookshelves. A goldfish explores its tank behind the small crowd of politicians seated catty-corner to the lectern. A hand-written sign titled "What's different about our playground" notes that it has no trees and no squirrels



October 15, 202113:43

Travel Pool Report #7 | Remarks Begin
Watch at Whitehouse.gov/live
From WH:
"The President is receiving an overview of the Capitol Child Development Center by Lisa Plamondon, the On-Site Director."
"Prior to his remarks, the President will be introduced by Barbara Jo Warner, Co-Director of the Capitol Child Development Center."



October 15, 202114:15

Travel Pool Report #8 | Remarks Conclude
Wrap on remarks at 2:09.
At one point President Biden voiced some doubt about the reconciliation bill's provision for free years of community college being able to survive eventual cuts.
To wit, he also acknowledged that the final reconciliation bill with probably be less than &3.5 trillion. He said, though, that after "we're going to come back and get the rest."
The president opened with his own experience needing childcare as a widower while serving in the Senate.
"It made me realize how difficult it is for the vast majority of people who need help"
He then complimented the delegation in house and discussed his vision for subsidized childcare and infrastructure spending in the bills afloat in Congress, tying them to economic growth.
At the end the president acknowledged the pool would have questions but didn't take any, ignoring some shouted from the back of the room. He did express optimism about former President Clinton's condition, knocking on wood.
Check footage for quotes.
We're rolling, past the protesters, back to the airport at 2:14.
(A note on the earlier separation of our bus while driving in the motorcade: the pool arrived around 1:15, about five minutes after the president, the White House press office told me. For about the last 10 minutes of the drive we lost sight of the motorcade's front, including the president's car.)



October 15, 202114:29

Travel Pool Report #9 | Lift Off
The pool had a smooth return to the airport and watched the POTUS board Marine 1 at 2:26.
The Trump supporters were no longer stationed outside on the curb. Your pooler noticed that the Brainard airport is celebrating its 100th anniversary. It's also hiring, per a sign outside.
We're off on the Ospreys at 2:29, on our way to Storrs.



October 15, 202114:51

Travel Pool Report #10 | Arrival in Storrs & Rolling
The pool was told to board our van before getting the chance to see the president exit Marine 1. The presidential Cadillac did drive past us at 2:49.
Students videotaped our Osprey from below, as we landed on an empty commuter and faculty/staff parking lot.
We're rolling at 2:50



October 15, 202114:56

Travel Pool Report #11 | Arrival & Color
We're stationed outside the Dodd Center for Human Rights Rights, arriving at 2:55.
Hundreds of students, standing behind fences, watched the motorcade pass earlier. More Trump flags. More "F*** Joe Biden" signs. Another said "What the F*** does Joe Biden know about rights?" And one sign offered a friendly bid welcome to the president: "Welcome to the Pack."



October 15, 202115:31

Travel Pool Report #12 | Clinton Call
From Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre:
"President Biden spoke by phone with President Clinton this afternoon. President Biden and President Clinton look forward to seeing each other again soon. President Biden wishes President Clinton a speedy recovery."



October 15, 202116:03

Travel Pool Report #13 | Biden Remarks
President Biden began speaking at 4:02,following remarks by former Sen. Chris Dodd.
The ceremony opened with a prayer by a rabbi and the singing of the national anthem. We're sitting in a veranda, next to a large group of students and UCONN officials. Bill Clinton, the last in-office president to visit UCONN, appeared in the event's commemoration video.
Notes from the WH:
"Upon arrival at the University of Connecticut, the President will be greeted by Senator Chris Dodd."
"Participants in a photoline with the President:

Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont
Connecticut Lieutenant Governor Susan Bysiewicz
Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal
Connecticut Senator Chris Murphy
Rep. John Larson (CT-01)
Rep. Rosa DeLauro (CT-03)
Rep. Joe Courtney (CT-02)
Rep. Jim Himes (CT-04)
Rep. Jahana Hayes (CT-05)
Chairman Rodney Butler, Mashantucket Tribe"




October 15, 202116:45

Travel Pool Report #14 | Remarks Conclude
The president finished speaking at 4:35.
He referenced his call with former President Clinton around two hours ago. He seemed frustrated at moments, speaking loudly into the microphone and occasionally pounding on the podium when discussing the threat of autocracy in the world.
Faintly, the pool could hear protesters chanting elsewhere on campus.
We're back in the motorcade, rolling to the Ospreys.



October 15, 202116:52

Travel Pool Report #15 | Lift Off Again
The pool did not get to see the president board Marine 1. Liftoff for the airport at 4:52



October 15, 202117:24

Travel Pool Report #16 | Wheels Up for JBA
The president departed Marine 1 on the tarmac of Bradley International Airport at 5:10, wearing sunglasses and a black mask, which he kept on.
He took questions on negotiations in Congress and a climate agreement in the reconciliation, community college funding, his talk with President Clinton, and strikes.
"It's clear that it's not going to be $3.5 trillion"
"They have a righteous strike"
I wanted to see how he was doing. He's doing fine. He really is." (On President Clinton)
"He's not in any serious condition. He's getting out shortly."
"I don't think we talked about any particular race" (on Virginia's governor election being discussed with Clinton)
"I think he'll win" (on Terry)
From my copooler on the talks with Climate Envoy Kerry:
"I think it would be good to have an agreement on climate," but he said "we're going to get" climate.
Union workers:
"My message is they have a righteous strike and they have a right to demand higher wages."
My co-pooler and I will send a fuller transcription and an audio file upon arrival.
We're taxiing and about to begin for our flight to JBA at 5:23



October 15, 202118:17

Travel Pool Report #17 | Arrival and Transcript
Wheels down at 6:09 at JBA.
Here's my best shot at a transcript of the president's preflight gaggle. Check this one against the audio, folks. AF1 engines are loud and he spoke softly at times. I put ellipsis in where he spoke but I couldn't understand.
Sorry for the font change. Transcribed in notes
"Can you give us some details on the talks you've been having this week – who you've been talking with, what the focus has been. Has there been any specific progress?"
"That wouldn't be appropriate … there has been progress …"
"Secretary Kerry said the other day that if you come to Scotland without legislation passed by Congress, a climate bill, that would be as bad for credibility as when Trump pulled out of Paris. What do you make of that? That's what Secretary Kerry said."
"Well I think it's good to have an agreement on the climate bill. But we're going to get the climate bill. And I think … a little hyperbole there …" (can't make out this bit)
"What's your message to the union workers striking around the country right now?"
"My message is that they have a righteous strike and they have a right to demand higher wages and companies they're sticking on are doing very well. I'm not going to get into negotiations but my message is that if you believe then you should do it."
"Mr president, you expressed some uncertainty about the two years of free community college in your reconciliation package during your speech at the childcare center. Would you sign a package that doesn't include that proposal?"
"Look, (laughing) obviously – are you married?"
"I'm not"
"Okay well you're going to have to learn how to negotiate better. All kidding aside, look, it's clear that it's not going to be $3.5 trillion. But the question is how much of what is important will we get into the legislation. I'm of the view that it's important to establish the principle on a whole range of issues, without guaranteeing you get the whole things here. It doesn't matter. You establish it. I don't know of any major change in American public policy that's occurred by a single piece of legislation. There probably is; I just can't think of one. So what happens is you pass the principle and you build on it. It's a fact that it works or it doesn't work. That's why I think you see so much support even from the folks who are holding out for the child tax credit. They didn't have that idea when I convinced them to pass it the first time. We did the act in February. But now people have seen it. It's practical, it works and it's fair. And so I doubt we'll get bigger funding for community colleges but I'm going to give up on community colleges as long as I'm president."
" … All the childcare money you talked about today - do you have any sense of whether Senators Manchin and Sinema putting that in the reconciliation package?"
"Yes"
"Yes they both do?"
"Yes I have a sense"
(On the call with Clinton)
"Oh I wanted to see how he was doing … he's doing fine. He really is. And he's going to be released from the hospital and we talked about, which we were going to do before, getting together. I haven't seen him in a while. I'm going to come over and have some lunch and talk. He was very encouraging about why he thought the policies I was pursuing made sense but we didn't get into much detail, except I was mainly just seeing how he was doing.
On whether Clinton is still in the hospital
"He's not in any serious condition. He is getting out shortly as I understand. Whether that's tomorrow or the next day I don't know."
"Did you guys talk about McAuliffe's race, Terry McAuliffe's race in Virginia?"
"No we didn't talk of any … I can think of. I don't think we talked about any particular race…"
"Do you think that Terry McAuliffe's race is foreshadowing how the Democrats will fare in the midterms"
"Well look I think everybody understands and reads the two gubernatorial off-year elections as being a bellwether of what may happen. Sometimes it's been right. Sometimes it's been wrong. I think Terry's going to win. If he doesn't win I don't know how much you read into that. But I think he'll win."
(Didn't respond to two questions about meeting with the Fed chair)
On what he meant by a comment about getting the rest of the $3.5 trillion earlier if the reconciliation package is slimmed?
"Figure it out. If you can't figure it out you shouldn't be a reporter."



October 15, 202118:27

Travel Pool Report #18 | Marine 1 Departure
The POTUS exited AF1 at 6:20.
He saluted, walked past the pool, and spoke shortly to the colonel greeting him. Saluting once more, he boarded Marine 1, which taxied off for the White House at 6:25.
Back to the earlier gaggle, the president was asked if he had recently met with Jerome Powell or Lael Brainard and he said, "nice talking to you."
From the WH:
"Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:

Col. Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing"

A huge thanks to my co-pooler, the intrepid Zolan Kanno-Youngs of the New York Times. Also, a good night and restful weekend to you all!



October 15, 202118:50

Travel Pool Report #19 | quote clarifier
Just a note that, upon a note from the White House, I reviewed the audio with the help of a radio colleague (shout to Scott Detrow, NPR) and noticed that the president said "they have a right to strike," not a "righteous strike" in his comments.




  