
    "The Laura Ingraham Show"
October 31, 2007
Governor Romney On Senator Clinton And Driver's Licenses For Illegal Immigrants:
Laura Ingraham: "Did you think that Hillary got hit at all or wounded or did they really not really give her many body blows."
Governor Romney: "No, I didn't think she took many body blows. She demonstrated herself – she was tap dancing so much that I thought I turned it to 'Dancing with the Stars.' She was refusing to answer the most straight questions that were given to her. 'Do you support illegal aliens receiving driver's licenses?' And she pretended like she wasn't in favor, but she clearly was in favor and the conclusion that anyone in the audience had to reach was she is in favor, but she didn't want to actually say it. It was a bob-and-weave show by Hillary Clinton with everybody else trying in a very gentle and ginger way to land a blow. But they didn't really land any knockout punches."
To listen to Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s9P1_fIG5CI
Governor Romney On Enforcing Immigration Laws:
Laura Ingraham: "Speaking of this issue of the driver's licenses for illegals, as you know Governor Romney, towns, states, cities, localities across America have tried to put into place some common-sense measures to either remove incentives for illegals to move into those areas or to crack down on people hiring illegals and so forth. But yesterday Rudy Giuliani said that, look, the Feds are trying to put responsibility for all of this on employers and on city government and on state government, and this should always be a federal issue. And my question to you is, are you going to say that same thing, should cities and towns not be able to do what they think they need to do to help the environment in their own communities?"
Governor Romney: "Well, it's consistent with his posture as Mayor, but he not only suggested that it was the Fed's responsibility, he actually went the other way around and said, as you know, he said, 'Look, if you happen to be in undocumented status,' which is code for an illegal alien, 'we welcome you to our city and we will protect you in our city.' That kind of attitude, that sanctuary city attitude is something we have to stop. And localities, businesses, all of us have to make sure that we don't do something which gives an imprimatur of acceptability or of apparent legality to people who come here illegally. So when a city says they can come to their city without worrying about losing benefits if they're illegal, when an employer hires people they know that are illegal, when a state says we're going to give you driver's licenses even though you're illegal, it says to somebody who's come here illegally, 'Hey, it's okay, they really don't care.' And that's simply wrong."
To listen to Governor Romney, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s2k2MvcBJNI
  