
    DES MOINES, Iowa — The Bernie Sanders campaign has announced an exciting statewide schedule ahead of the Iowa Democratic Party's Jefferson-Jackson Dinner. Supporters across the state will be showing their enthusiasm and commitment to Sanders' call for a political revolution during events that will start Friday—beginning with a free concert in downtown Davenport, and culminating with a show of organizational strength by hosting J-J watch parties in every region of the state on Saturday night.
Bernie's All-Star Band — musicians from Iowa and across the country— will join Sen. Sanders on stage Friday, October 23, 7:30 p.m., at the Adler Theatre in Davenport, Iowa.
On Saturday, Sanders, along with the other Democratic candidates, will speak before a projected sold-out crowd of over 5,000 attendees at the Iowa Democratic Party's Jefferson-Jackson Dinner, their largest event of the year.
Prior to the J-J dinner, Sanders will join volunteers and supporters at a rally in downtown Des Moines, outside the Argonne Armory Building. Following the rally, Sanders will lead supporters and volunteers in a march across the Women of Achievement Bridge.
The Sanders campaign has also organized J-J watch parties throughout Iowa, so supporters unable to travel to Des Moines can gather to watch Bernie's speech, covered live on C-SPAN Saturday evening.
"We understand the cost associated with traveling across the state to participate in an event in Des Moines is not something all Iowa families can do. So we are doing what we can to ensure anyone who can't attend the J-J in person is still part of the day's festivities," said Robert Becker, Bernie 2016 Iowa state director. "Our Friday night concert in Davenport is a reminder that creating the 'political revolution' that Bernie talks about, while vital to our nation's progress, can also be fun. Additionally, it's a way for us to say 'thank you' to our supporters and volunteers who have turned out for Bernie in unprecedented numbers, time and time again."
Here is the itinerary:
Friday, October 23
7:30 p.m.
#RockinTheBern Concert — Bernie's All-Star Band , Adler Theatre, 136 E. 3rd Street, Davenport
Announced performers (additional artists to be announced): Wayne Kramer (MC5), Marshall Crenshaw, Jill Sobule, Walter Schreifels (Quicksand), Sean Kelly (The Samples), Ryan Miller (Guster), Brother Trucker, Matthew Grimm with Hannah Drollinger.
Doors open at 6:30 p.m. Event is free and open to the public, but tickets are required and can be obtained via RSVP.
Saturday, October 24
3 p.m.
Bernie Sanders Rally & March, The Argonne Armory Building (near the Women of Achievement pedestrian bridge, east side), Armory Parking Lot, 602 Robert D Ray Drive, Des Moines
Information for the public: Doors open at 3:00 p.m. Event is free and open to the public, but RSVPs are encouraged.
7 p.m.
Iowa Democratic Party Jefferson-Jackson Dinner, Iowa Events Center, Hy-Vee Hall, 730 3rd Street, Des Moines
This is ticketed event by the Iowa Democratic Party.
Press credentialing is handled by the Iowa Democratic Party here.
  