
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 27
Gerald V. Poje, of Virginia, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years (reappointment).
Submitted September 28
Gary L. Ackerman, of New York, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-fourth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Thomas L. Ambro, of Delaware, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Third Circuit, vice Walter K. Stapleton, retired.
Frank Henry Cruz, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2006 (reappointment).
Peter T. King, of New York, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-fourth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Richard Linn, of Virginia, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice Giles S. Rich, deceased.
Charles Taylor Manatt, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Dominican Republic.
Quenton I. White, of Tennessee, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Tennessee for the term of 4 years, vice John Marshall Roberts, resigned.
Submitted September 29
Skila Harris, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2008, vice William H. Kennoy, term expired.
Glenn L. McCullough, Jr., of Mississippi, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for the remainder of the term expiring May 18, 2005, vice Johnny H. Hayes, resigned.
Withdrawn September 29
Skila Harris, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for the remainder of the term expiring May 18, 2005, vice Johnny H. Hayes, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on September 23, 1999.
Glenn L. McCullough, Jr., of Mississippi, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2008, vice William H. Kennoy, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on September 23, 1999.
Submitted October 1
Avis Thayer Bohlen, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Arms Control) (new position).
Joseph R. Crapa, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the U.S. Agency for International Development, vice Jill B. Buckley.
LeGree Sylvia Daniels, of Pennsylvania, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2007 (reappointment).
Greta Joy Dicus, of Arkansas, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Forty-third Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
William A. Halter, of Arkansas, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2001 (new position).
Alan Craig Kessler, of Pennsylvania, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2008, vice J. Sam Winters.
J. Stapleton Roy, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the personal rank of Career Ambassador, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Intelligence and Research), vice Phyllis E. Oakley.
Norman A. Wulf, of Virginia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Forty-third Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
  