
    The new United States–Mexico–Canada Agreement includes key victories for American manufacturers, agriculture, businesses, and workers. 
BUSINESS INSIDER: Trump's New Trade Deal with Canada and Mexico is Winning Early Praise
"Early reviews of President Donald Trump's new trade pact with Mexico and Canada are positive ... The refreshed version of NAFTA will include increased labor protections for workers, increased standards for duty-free auto shipments, increased access to the Canadian dairy market for US farmers, and a slight tweak to the deal's dispute-resolution system."
FOX BUSINESS: US Stocks Surge as US, Canada, Mexico Reach Trade Deal
"Stocks surged Monday as Canada and the U.S. reached a trade deal that also includes Mexico, and key changes at the top of major corporations boosted investor sentiment."
THE WASHINGTON TIMES: Trump Trade Deal with Canada, Mexico Gets American Farmers' Stamp of Approval
"The Trump administration's new three-way trade deal to replace NAFTA got a thumbs-up from American farmers. Americans for Farmers & Families spokesman Casey Guernsey, a seventh-generation farmer, said the three-way deal showed Mr. Trump remembered his promise ‘to stand up for rural America. ... After years of declining income and months of trade uncertainty, farmers desperately needed a win, and today the Trump administration delivered it,' he said. ‘While eager to learn the details, I hope that Congress will use this positive momentum to bring this important agreement over the finish line.'"
WASHINGTON EXAMINER: Canada Gave Ground on the Key Issue of Dairy in New Trade Agreement
"Canada gave ground to the U.S. in the North American Free Trade Agreement replacement deal agreed to Sunday by rolling back protections for its domestic dairy industry, providing a victory to American farmers on one of the key points of negotiation."
THE WALL STREET JOURNAL: New NAFTA Shows Trump's Trade Strategy for Balancing Labor, Business Interests
"The Teamsters have nice things to say about the new North American Free Trade Agreement. Big banks can also claim a victory. ... Many labor officials say they've been pleasantly surprised with strong language in the agreement pushing Mexico to bolster its unions, including protecting ‘the right to strike.' American unions have argued that the lack of such provisions in the original NAFTA meant the pact encouraged factories to relocate south of the border in search of cheaper workers."
NEW YORK POST EDITORIAL BOARD: NAFTA 2.0: Trump Delivers on Another Big Promise
"[I]t's hard to argue with the result: Trump has once again delivered on a campaign promise that his rivals called a fantasy. A politician who does what he says he'll do: Imagine that."
THE VIRGINIAN-PILOT EDITORIAL BOARD: Trade Pact Rings up Trump Victory
"Apparently those hard-line tactics worked, and the president appears well within his right to chalk this up as a victory. Though details were still being finalized for release, it appears that American farmers will secure greater access to Canadian dairy markets..."
TOM ROGAN IN WASHINGTON EXAMINER: From NAFTA to USMCA, Trump Just Got a Win for America
"Whether you're a Democrat, Republican, or an independent, you should welcome President Trump's announcement of the new United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, or USMCA, on Monday. A replacement for NAFTA, the USMCA will increase U.S. access to Canadian markets and ensure greater centering of the car industry in North America."
STEVE CORTES IN REAL CLEAR POLITICS: Make North America Great Again
"The USMCA framework showcases the practical genius of our negotiator and entrepreneur-in-chief, President Trump. Unlike the lawyers and bureaucrats who dominate most high political offices, as a global businessman Trump implicitly understands the predicament that American workers and firms face competing against a commercially abusive China."
CHRISTIAN WHITON ON FOX NEWS: Trump Has Just Revolutionized Global Trade by Replacing NAFTA with USMCA
"Trump administration negotiators reached a major agreement with Canada on trade over the weekend. The breakthrough, which came on the heels of an earlier deal with Mexico, vindicates President Trump's tough approach to reforming trade and will mark a fundamental turning point for American jobs and global power."
LIZ PEEK IN THE HILL: Trump's ‘America First' Policy Scores a Big Win with New NAFTA Deal
"The new NAFTA, which will be called the U.S.-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), secured some advantages for the U.S. while also giving in to certain Canadian priorities. ... More broadly, the new NAFTA shows the world that the Trump White House may succeed in bringing home better trade pacts."
  