
    THE PRIME MINISTER and the President had a frank and useful exchange of views covering a broad range of topics of common interest. Their talks reflected the cordial relations existing between Singapore and the United States and were directed toward enhancing mutual understanding.
The President and the Prime Minister agreed that the security and welfare of the entire Pacific community is dependent upon the countries of Southeast Asia being able to maintain their independence and accelerate their economic growth in an atmosphere of self-reliance and mutual cooperation. The President expressed the hope that Singapore would continue to make her contribution to the growth of regional cooperation in Southeast Asia. The Prime Minister expressed Singapore's readiness to play her part in constructing a regional framework for common prosperity and mutual security.
The President and the Prime Minister agreed that mutual respect, noninterference and equality among all nations are essential principles underlying the creation of a stable, peaceful, international order. The leaders agreed that every nation should have the right to select its own political, economic and social system and its own way of life free from any outside interference or pressure.
The two leaders reviewed recent developments in East Asia in the context of the universal desire of all peoples of the world to achieve a peace that respects liberty, human dignity and provides more equal opportunities for all peoples to achieve better and higher standards of life which the application of science and technology to industry has now made possible.
The President expressed his deep and abiding interest in the achievement of peace and stability in East Asia which would permit the countries of the area to devote all of their energies to economic development and the enrichment of the lives of their peoples.
The Prime Minister expressed his hope that a settlement would be reached in Vietnam which would enhance the prospects of peace and security for the rest of South and Southeast Asia.
The two leaders expressed the support of their countries for the United Nations and stressed the need for it to develop into an increasingly effective instrument of international peace and security, and for the promotion of friendly relations and cooperation among nations and peoples for their economic and social advancement.
  