
    Faith leaders from denominations representing more than 100 million Americans are making the case for the passage of President Biden's agenda to secure a brighter, more equitable future for all Americans, while ensuring the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share.
Making the moral argument that now is the time for the Build Back Better Agenda, Diane Randall of the Friends Committee on National Legislation writes that: "we are presented with a once-in-a-generation opportunity to drastically change the wellbeing of millions of Americans." Rev. Jim Wallis underscores the importance of this moment, writing: "What the American people, and church members across the political spectrum, need to know is that these are moral and religious issues, not just political ones: concrete help for critical child care, needed medical care, paid family leave, safe and affordable housing, access to education which children need for their futures, job opportunities for millions of families, including effective earned income tax support and, most centrally, a child tax credit that will cut child poverty in half in America." As Rev. Walter Kim, President of the National Association of Evangelicals, said during the Circle of Protection's visit to the White House, "We urge the passage of this legislation."
The coalition of faith leaders includes: Bread for the World, Catholic Charities USA, the National Association of Evangelicals, the Islamic Society of North America, the Episcopal Church, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the National African American Clergy Network, the Union for Reform Judaism, the National Council of Jewish Women, the National Latino Evangelical Coalition, the Friends Committee on National Legislation, American Muslim Health Professionals, Sojourners, Bend the Arc: Jewish Action, NETWORK, and more.
Highlights of activities include op-eds, public letters, state-specific and national events, and other grassroots activities:

Public letters supporting key components of the legislation from the Circle of Protection, NETWORK, the Friends Committee on National Legislation, Bread for the World, and Sojourners.
A national letter calling for passage of the legislation from the Washington Interreligious Staff Community, comprised of over 70 national religious organizations and denominations from a variety of different faiths
Op-eds encouraging passage of the legislation from Rev. Eugene Cho, Rev. Jim Wallis, Diane Randall, and people of faith in Ohio, Iowa, and New Hampshire
Videos highlighting why the Build Back Better Agenda is "Good News to the Poor" from Bishop Michael Curry and Bishop Elizabeth Eaton, Rev. Carlos Malave, Rev. Adam Taylor, Rev. David Beckmann, Diane Randall, Rev. Jim Wallis, and Rev. Eugene Cho
Hosting national and state-specific events, including Faith in Public Life's Holy Recovery Vigil, a forum convened by Georgetown's Initiative on Catholic Social Thought and Public Life, regional events led by Bread for the World, and NETWORK's "Faithful Recovery" webinar

  