
    Pool Reports by Courtney Rozen, Bloomberg Government 



Sent:
Reports:




October 18, 202111:56

Pool Report #1 
I will be your print pooler for Oct. 18.
No events on the president’s public schedule so far that are open to the pool. In-town pool call time is at noon. White House press secretary Jen Psaki will brief at 1 p.m.



October 18, 202113:13

Pool Report #2 
We have a two-minute warning for Jen Psaki’s briefing at 1:12.



October 18, 202113:59

Pool Report #3 
Jen Psaki’s briefing ended at 1:56 p.m.
No word on any updates to the president’s schedule.



October 18, 202115:29

Pool Report #4 - POTUS surprise appearance 
More to come.
The pool gathered at 2:28 p.m. for an unannounced public appearance.
Pool walked to the South Lawn for the first lady's event, where the president was scheduled to make a surprise appearance. The first lady is hosting the Council of Chief State School Officers (CCSSO) 2020 and 2021 State and National Teachers of the Year at the White House.
When pool arrived, there were about 100 white folding chairs on the lawn. Instrumental music played in the background and attendees took photos near the podium (lots of selfies). Pooler spotted House Education and Labor Chairman Bobby Scott (D-Va.) socializing with a group in the front row. Also Randi Weingarten of AFT.
Everyone took their seats at about 2:45 p.m. The music faded at 2:52. An announcer said: "Ladies and gentlemen, the First Lady of the United States, Jill Biden."
The first lady and Secretary of Education Cardona walked out, followed by two national teachers of the year for 2020 and 2021. They all stood on a podium. Secretary Cardona spoke first.
Teacher Tabatha Rosproy (2020) spoke second. She wore a cape with drawings on the back made by her students and community, she said.
Third was Juliana Urtubey (2021).
Secretary Cardona then returned to the mic to introduce Dr. Biden. She got a standing ovation from the crowd.
Marines appeared at the doors behind the first lady at 3:25. President Biden walked out and got a standing ovation. "Hail to the Chief" played over the speakers. He took off his sunglasses and said: "My name is Joe Biden and I'm Jill's husband."
Flag above the White House was flying at half-staff to honor former Secretary of State Colin Powell.



October 18, 202115:53

Pool Report #5 
Notes from South Lawn.
The president mentioned former Secretary of State Colin Powell in his speech. He called him "a dear friend and a patriot." He said Powell had teachers who told him "you can do anything."
He wrapped up the speech by saying thank you and putting on his sunglasses. He handed a small apple trophy to Ms. Rosproy and another to Ms. Urtubey. Both teachers got a standing ovation.
The speakers played "God Bless America." The president stood on stage talking with Ms. Rosproy before speaking to another guest.
The president took a photo with all the teachers in the audience, Dr. Biden, and Secretary Cardona. A teacher from Delaware stopped to speak with the president for a minute and take an individual picture.
He took three questions from reporters. Below are newsworthy highlights and not complete quotes.
Q: Can you say something about Secretary Powell?
"He had a very serious underlying condition."
Q: Should people still get vaccinated?
A: "Absolutely."
(Also chastised reporter for asking question, my paraphrase of what he said is: don't ask a question that you don't know the answer to.)
Q: How are you going to get Joe Manchin to agree?
A: "That's where I'm going now."
Pool escorted away as of 3:51 p.m.



October 18, 202116:21

Pool Report #5a 
Fuller quotes below.
On Powell: "He had two very serious underlying conditions. And unfortunately, it didn't work. God love him." (It = vaccination)
To a reporter who asked about whether Americans should still get vaccinated: "Absolutely." "Ask questions that you really want the answer to."
On when he'll make a deal with Sen. Manchin: "I'm going to go do that right now. That's where I'm going."



October 18, 202116:39

Pool Report #6 
Travel/photo lid as of 4:37 p.m. Have a good afternoon.




  