
    
"His commitment to put America first has, at times, made him unpopular and caused him to search his political conscience. Yet in the end, he has never retreated from the core values that have set him apart from the rest. It has won him grudging respect from his most hardened foes and the admiration of millions of Americans who value honesty, character and personal sacrifice. He is America's true-blue, principled maverick."-- Lowell Sun
"McCain For President"
Editorial
Lowell [MA]SunOctober 2, 2008
In early 2005, when Sen. Ted Kennedy, the Democrats' Liberal Lion, sought a Republican ally to craft a comprehensive immigration-reform bill, he crossed the aisle to the one colleague he knew would have the courage to take the right course, not the most popular one. Sen. John McCain was that person.
The Kennedy-McCain collaboration produced a sensible solution to what was a major issue in America at the time. The bill died, however, when conservative Republicans pilloried McCain for joining forces with Kennedy.
Several years earlier, McCain teamed with Sen. Russell Feingold, a Wisconsin Democrat, to write a historic campaign-finance law that generated condemnation from both parties because it established more transparency and contribution limits.
McCain and Feingold were each awarded a Profile in Courage award for taking on a fight that, when won, left them bloodied in criticism despite having changed an entrenched, corrupt system.
These are two of many examples of McCain's independence from party politics during his 21-year career in Congress. His commitment to put America first has, at times, made him unpopular and caused him to search his political conscience. Yet in the end, he has never retreated from the core values that have set him apart from the rest. It has won him grudging respect from his most hardened foes and the admiration of millions of Americans who value honesty, character and personal sacrifice.
He is America's true-blue, principled maverick.
In this era of intense party feelings and clashing interests, John McCain is the most qualified leader to reconcile our differences and get America working together again.
Ironically, the best argument for a President McCain was made by Sen. Hillary Clinton in her Democratic primary-campaign TV ad. It asked, "When the phone rings at 3 a.m. in the White House, who do you want to answer it?" We want President McCain picking up that phone.
No doubt the economy is foremost on people's minds today, as well it should be. But the truth is the No. 1 issue for the next president is national security. Without a safe and secure America, there would be no U.S. economy.
The world is a dangerous place. There are extremist groups at work this very moment plotting our destruction and that of our allies. We need a president who is committed to keeping our military strong; a president who understands the sacrifice of our brave troops, and when it is necessary, to put them in harm's way; a president who is a realist on foreign policy, one who can diplomatically bridge the divide with nations abroad, yet acknowledge that no country can ever be expected to put America's interests above its own.
Ending our dependence on foreign oil will play a key role in determining America's economic and military future.
We must develop an alternative-energy industry that is the envy of the world. In the meantime, however, America must increase its domestic drilling sphere so we won't be held hostage by foreign oil producers. McCain can and will forge a bipartisan plan to increase domestic supply and keep costs down.
The son of a rear admiral, Navy Capt. John McCain gave 51/2 years of his life as a prisoner of war in Vietnam. He suffered enormously for his country and his comrades. That alone is no reason to vote for him, but how that experience changed McCain is every reason why he should be the next commander in chief:
"I fell in love with my country when I was a prisoner in someone else's," he said. "... I wasn't my own man anymore. I was my country's."
The Sun is proud to endorse Sen. John McCain, a true American hero in words and action, for the office of the president of the United States.
Read The Editorial
  