
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Systemic lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE) is a potentially serious, complicated, inflammatory connective tissue disease that can produce changes in the structure and function of the skin, joints, and internal organs. More than 500,000 Americans are estimated to have lupus; approximately 90 percent of these are women. One of the most frequent serious disorders of young women, lupus is characterized by periods when the disease is active alternating with periods of remission.
In recent years, the outlook for lupus patients has become progressively brighter as a result of advances from biomedical research. Positive findings have emerged from such diverse projects as studies of the immune system; research on genetic and environmental factors; investigations of hormonal effects; and evaluations of the course and treatment of the disease and its complications. The Federal government and private voluntary organizations have developed a strong and enduring partnership committed to research on lupus. Working together, our objective must be to eradicate lupus and its tragic consequences.
In order for us to take advantage of the knowledge already gained, to increase public awareness of the characteristics and treatment of lupus, and to point up the urgent need for continuing research, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 57, has designated the week beginning October 20, 1985, through October 26, 1985, as "Lupus Awareness Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 20 through October 26, 1985, as Lupus Awareness Week. I urge the people of the United States and educational, philanthropic, scientific, medical, and health care organizations and professionals to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and programs.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  