
    Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert: "I Have Found No Better Friend Of Jerusalem In America Than Rudy Giuliani."(Timothy Williams, "Jerusalem Mayor Weighs In For Giuliani," The Associated Press, 2/17/00) Mort Zuckerman: Giuliani "Lends His Very Powerful Voice In … Backing Israel's Right To Exist …" ("Pandora," The [London] Independent, 6/24/98) JTA: "One Of Israel's Most Vocal Supporters In The United States…" (Ron Kampeas, "As Candidates Enter 2008 Race, They Begin Courting Jewish Support," Jewish Telegraphic Agency, 1/24/07) 
STANDING WITH ISRAEL
Rudy Giuliani In 1964: "Certainly All Of Us Have A Stake In The Protection Of Our Firmest Ally In The Middle East [Israel] …" (Rudy Giuliani, "Ars Politica," Manhattan [College] Quadrangle, 10/22/64)
Following Gruesome Terrorist Attacks In Israel, Then-Jerusalem Mayor Ehud Olmert Invited Mayor Giuliani To Visit In Show Of Solidarity. "'Immediately following the first explosion, the mayor wrote me a very moving letter. And then again after the second explosion, he said in a very desperate voice, "What can I do, tell me,"' the Jerusalem mayor [Ehud Olmert] said. 'And I said to him, spontaneously, come over, be with us. Immediately he said, "I will."'" (Eric Greenberg, "'I Had To Be Here,'" The Jewish Week, 3/15/96)
Mayor Giuliani Recognizes Israel Exists "To Make Certain That Jews From All Over The World Have A Place To Live, A Place To Go To Fulfill The Promise Of Never Again …" (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks To Republican Jewish Coalition Forum, Washington, DC, 12/1/99)
Mayor Giuliani: "Israel Is An Oasis Of Freedom In A Desert Of Authoritarianism And Worse. It Is An Outpost Of Democracy Where Democracy Is Unique." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks To Rally In Support Of Israel, Washington, DC, 4/15/02)
Mayor Giuliani: "There Is No Moral Equivalent Between The State Of Israel And The Palestinian Authority. … There Is A Difference Between A Nation Based On Law And Democracy And One That Harbors Terrorism." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks To Rally In Support Of Israel, Washington, DC, 4/15/02)
Giuliani Said U.S. Pressure On Israel During Oslo Peace Process "Was Wrong And We Should Never Do It Again." "[Giuliani] called the concessions Israel was forced to make as part of the Oslo process before the Palestinians fulfilled any of their requirements, 'mistakes.' 'The US pushed Israel to make concessions, and it didn't matter that the Palestinians did nothing to live up to their end of the bargain. This was wrong and we should never do it again,' he said." (Susan Rosenbluth, "'Hamas or Abbas, It Makes No Difference,' Rudy Giuliani Says, No Israeli Concessions Until The Arabs Stop Terrorism," The Jewish Voice And Opinion, 4/07)
Rudy And Judith Giuliani Visited Victims Of Terrorist Bombings At Shaarei Tzedek Hospital. "At Shaarei Tzedek Hospital, Mr. Giuliani offered words of encouragement to Yonatan Baranik, 18, a frail young man battling cancer. He had gone with friends to Ben-Yehuda Street for ice cream, to celebrate because he was getting better. 'Shalom, get well quickly,' the mayor said to him, mentioning his own fight with prostate cancer. In another room, he and Ms. Nathan saw Leah Saban, also 18, who had suffered burns over almost her entire body." (Clyde Haberman, "Pataki, Giuliani And Bloomberg Return An Israeli Condolence Call," The New York Times, 12/10/01)
Mayor Giuliani Called America's Commitment To The Security Of Israel "A Permanent Feature Of Our Foreign Policy." "The problem [in the Palestinian-controlled territories] is not the lack of statehood but corrupt and unaccountable governance. The Palestinian people need decent governance first, as a prerequisite for statehood. Too much emphasis has been placed on brokering negotiations between the Israelis and the Palestinians — negotiations that bring up the same issues again and again. It is not in the interest of the United States, at a time when it is being threatened by Islamist terrorists, to assist the creation of another state that will support terrorism. Palestinian statehood will have to be earned through sustained good governance, a clear commitment to fighting terrorism, and a willingness to live in peace with Israel. America's commitment to Israel's security is a permanent feature of our foreign policy." (Rudolph W. Giuliani, "Toward A Realistic Peace," Foreign Affairs, September/October 2007)
CHALLENGING ANTI-SEMITISM ABROAD
Mayor Giuliani: "The Answer To Ending The Projection Onto The United States And To Israel Of The Problems In The Middle East By These Corrupt Governments Is To Create Accountable Governments." (Fox News' "The O'Reilly Factor," 9/4/06)
Mayor Giuliani "Called On Europeans To Stop Demonizing Israel." "Former Mayor Rudy Giuliani, who's leading a Bush administration delegation to an international anti-Semitism conference next week, yesterday called on Europeans to stop demonizing Israel. 'The ways [the Middle East conflict is] discussed, the language that's used – maybe there are better ways to have the debate without the demonizations that go on,' Giuliani told The Post." (Brian Blomquist, "Rudy's Plea For Peace," The New York Post, 6/14/03)
OPPOSING TERRORISTS AND THEIR SUPPORTERS
Giuliani: "We Must Never Be On The Defense Against Terrorism. Never Again. We Must Always Be On The Offense, Never Acquiescing, Always Doing What We Have To Do To Keep Our Country Safe And Strong …" (Susan Rosenbluth, "'Hamas or Abbas, It Makes No Difference,' Rudy Giuliani Says, No Israeli Concessions Until The Arabs Stop Terrorism," The Jewish Voice And Opinion, 4/07)
Giuliani Recognizes Islamist Terrorism Began With 1972 Munich Olympics Attacks. "Mr. Giuliani told his supporters he was running for President because he believes he understands terrorism better than any other candidate currently running to hold the office. He pointed out that, as far as he is concerned, Islamist terrorism against the West began in 1972 at the Munich Olympics when Palestinian terrorists kidnapped and murdered 11 Israeli athletes. He said he remembered being appalled when the German authorities, who had arrested some of the terrorists, quickly released them. 'They let them go because they were afraid if they did not, there would be more terrorist attacks in Germany,' he said, pointing out that many European countries followed Germany's example." (Susan Rosenbluth, "'Hamas or Abbas, It Makes No Difference,' Rudy Giuliani Says, No Israeli Concessions Until The Arabs Stop Terrorism," The Jewish Voice And Opinion, 4/07)
Giuliani Refused Saudi Prince's $10 Million Check For Twin Towers Fund After Prince Called On U.S. To "Re-Examine Its Policies In The Middle East And Adopt A More Balanced Stance Towards The Palestinian Cause." (Steve Maich, "The Billionaire Prince Who Owns Canada's Treasures," Maclean's, 7/24/06)
Mayor Giuliani: "The Problem Of The Palestinian People Was, They Had A Man Who Was Leading Them Who Was Stealing Billions Of Dollars." (Joe Stumpe, "Leadership High On Giuliani's Agenda," The Wichita Eagle, 12/3/04)
Mayor Giuliani Ejected Yasser Arafat From NY Concert. "PLO leader Yasser Arafat was thrown out of a classical concert for leaders celebrating the United Nations' 50th anniversary, New York officials said on Tuesday, sparking an angry incident that pitted New York City against the U.S. State Department." ("Arafat – And Diplomacy – Are Tossed Out The Door," USA Today, 10/25/95)

And Stood By His Decision To Remove Arafat. "If I had the discretion I would not invite Yasser Arafat to anything, anywhere, anytime, any place … When you're having a party, I would rather not have someone who has been implicated in the murders of Americans." (Rudy Giuliani, As Quoted In "Arafat – And Diplomacy – Are Tossed Out The Door," USA Today, 10/25/95)

As U.S. Attorney, Rudy Giuliani Fought To Close PLO's New York City Office. "In 1988, [U.S. Attorney] Rudy Giuliani … began the longstanding fight to shut down the [Palestinian] mission [in New York]. In a lawsuit, Giuliani argued that the Anti-Terrorism Act of 1987 … should apply to the Palestinian Mission. While the judge in the case ruled that there was no question that the court had jurisdiction over the then PLO office, Congressional intent was unclear, and the mission was allowed to continue to operating." (Rep. Anthony Weiner, "Congress Moves Closer To Shutting Down Hamas-Run Mission In New York City," Press Release, 5/23/06)
Mayor Giuliani Called Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad "An Enemy Of America, Israel, And The Entire Free World." Giuliani: "I have always been proud to stand with the Conference of Presidents and speak out against terrorists and their supporters. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad is an enemy of America, Israel, and the entire free world. We should never remain silent when evil makes an appearance." (Rudy Giuliani, Statement, 9/24/07)
INSISTING ON REALISTIC PEACE PROCESS
Giuliani: "Hamas Or Abbas, It Makes No Difference. The Ball Is In Their Court" To Stop Terrorism And Recognize Israel. "'Hamas or Abbas, it makes no difference [who controls Palestinian Authority]. The ball is in their court, and we just have to show patience and not push any peace process until they do what they have to do,' said Mr. Giuliani." What they have to do, he said, is, at the very minimum, to recognize Israel's right to exist and to renounce terrorism. Then, he said, Israel and the US should sit back and see if they mean it." (Susan Rosenbluth, "'Hamas or Abbas, It Makes No Difference,' Rudy Giuliani Says, No Israeli Concessions Until The Arabs Stop Terrorism," The Jewish Voice And Opinion, 4/07)
Giuliani Wants Palestinians To "Show That They Are Ending Terrorism," Not Just "Say The Words." Giuliani: "They don't just have to say the words. Anyone can say the words. They have to show that they are ending terrorism; they have to show that they are doing what they have to do to end terrorism. I'm a strong proponent of the philosophy that we can trust, but we have to verify … If all that happens, then it will lead naturally to a peace process, but we have to wait patiently until they are ready to make it happen. And no one should make any concessions to the Palestinians until they take those steps." (Susan Rosenbluth, "'Hamas or Abbas, It Makes No Difference,' Rudy Giuliani Says, No Israeli Concessions Until The Arabs Stop Terrorism," The Jewish Voice And Opinion, 4/07)
Mayor Giuliani: "All Of Us Yearn For Peace, But Peace Must Be Based On Realism, Not Romance." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks To Rally In Support Of Israel, Washington, DC, 4/15/02)
Mayor Giuliani's Strong Principles For "Path To Peace" In Middle East. "For the good of America and for the good of Israel, the path to peace must be based on three principles that we must re-emphasize. The Palestinian Authority must live up to its agreements … The Palestinian Authority also must demonstrate, over a period of time, a real effort, which it has not, to establish institutions of political and economic freedom and religious toleration for all religions. And we must, thirdly, re-analyze the territorial arrangement in order to provide one that makes more sense in leading toward a lasting peace." (Mayor Rudy Giuliani, Remarks To Rally In Support Of Israel, Washington, DC, 4/15/02)
  