
    The President of the United States and the President of Russia categorically reject and resolutely condemn terrorism in all its forms and manifestations, regardless of motive. The Presidents stress that the barbaric act of terrorism committed in the United States on September 11, 2001 represent a crime against all humanity.
The Presidents note that terrorism threatens not only the security of the United States and Russia, but also that of the entire international community, as well as international peace and security. They believe that terrorism poses a direct threat to the rule of law and to human rights and democratic values. It has no foundation in any religion, national or cultural traditions, and it only uses them as a cover for its criminal goals.
The Presidents agree that every effort be undertaken to bring the perpetrators to justice, while protecting the rights and welfare of civilians. They stress that the fight against terrorism requires the unity of the entire international community to counter new challenges and threats on the basis of international law and the full use of the United Nations and other international organizations.
The Presidents call for all states to join a sustained global coalition to defeat international terrorism. Nations must make use of diplomatic, political, law enforcement, financial, intelligence, and military means to root out terrorists and their sponsors and bring them to justice.
The Presidents emphasize that the current situation in Afghanistan is a direct consequence of the policies pursued by the Taliban, which turned that country into an international center of terrorism and extremism. They reaffirm that the United States and Russia are ready to cooperate closely with the United Nations to promote a postconflict settlement in Afghanistan that would provide for the formation of a representative, broad-based government capable of ensuring the restoration of a peaceful Afghanistan that maintains good relations with countries of the region and beyond it.
The leaders of the two countries view U.S.-Russian cooperation as a critical element in the global effort against terrorism. They reaffirm their personal commitment and that of their two countries to fight this deadly challenge through active cooperation and coordination, both bilaterally and within the framework of international institutions.
The Presidents note with satisfaction the fruitful cooperation between the United States and Russia in the United Nations and the UN Security Council, in the NATO-Russia Permanent Joint Council, and in the G-8. They also instruct their governments to reinforce bilateral cooperation throughout the U.S.-Russia Working Group on countering terrorist and other threats emanating from Afghanistan.
The Presidents agree that the financial, communications, and logistics networks of terrorist organizations must be destroyed. They call upon all nations without exception to take measures to block access of terrorist organizations to financial resources, to enhance law enforcement tools to combat terrorism, and to strengthen procedures to stop the transit of terrorists and their material within and between countries. They stress the importance of speedy ratification and implementation of existing international counterterrorism conventions.
The two Presidents are resolved to advance cooperation in combating new terrorist threats: nuclear, chemical and biological, as well as those in cyberspace. They agreed to enhance bilateral and multilateral action to stem the export and proliferation of nuclear, chemical and biological materials, related technologies, and delivery systems as a critical component of the battle to defeat international terrorism.
  