
    Jean B. Elshtain, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for the Remainder of the Term Expiring January 26, 2010, vice Thomas Mallon, resigned.
Allen C. Guelzo, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for the remainder of the term expiring January 26, 2006, vice Naomi Shihab Nye.
Allen C. Guelzo, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2012. (Reappointment)
Eugene Hickok, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for the remainder of the term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Sidney McPhee.
Mark McKinnon, of Texas, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2006, vice Fayza Veronique Boulad Rodman.
Mark McKinnon, of Texas, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2009. (Reappointment)
Ronald L. Schlicher, of Tennessee, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cyprus.
Alejandro Daniel Wolff, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be the Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Deputy Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations.
Alejandro Daniel Wolff, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during his tenure of service as Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Mark McKinnon, of Texas, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2008, vice Joaquin F. Blaya, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on September 6, 2005.
  