
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

"The soldier, above all other people, prays for peace," said General Douglas MacArthur, "for he must suffer and bear the deepest wounds and scars of war." It is fitting that we pause on the anniversary of Armistice Day, a day dedicated to peace, to honor those Americans who answered our Nation's call to duty when the United States had no choice but to fight for the principles we cherish.
As we Americans go about our day-to-day activities, from a busy shift at work to a quiet evening with family and friends, we seldom think of the individuals who walked in the very shadow of death in order to preserve our way of life. Yet were it not for our veterans, who endured the terrifying scream of bombs and sirens and the haunting sight of bodies broken in battle, we might well not enjoy the liberty and security we share today -- blessings we all too often take for granted. Our comfort has come at the cost of many a veteran's youth and health; our freedom, through the sacrifices of those who faced capture, imprisonment, and even torture, in the defense of freedom. From the victors of World War I and survivors of the infamous Bataan Death March to the service members who returned from a hundred lesser-known trials during and since World War II, America's veterans have earned all of the respect and gratitude that we express on this occasion. These Americans do not seek glory, any more than they sought the hellish test of war; however, they do ask -- rightly -- that their great cause be honored and remembered.
While Veterans Day is dedicated to all those who have served in our country's uniform, including veterans of more recent conflicts in Southeast Asia, Panama, and the Persian Gulf, during this 50th anniversary of World War II we remember especially those who helped to defeat the expansionist aims of Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan. Before time deprives us of their living history forever, we do well to learn from these veterans and from their eyewitness accounts of the Allied struggle against tyranny and aggression. World War II veterans know firsthand of the importance of a strong, united America, and their lifelong patriotism should remain an inspiration for generations to come. While the events of a half-century ago may seem remote today, they in fact hold lessons of eternal value: the first of which is that our Nation is only as great as the character and convictions of her people; our freedom, only as certain as our moral and military capacity to preserve it.
Today many veterans are helping to maintain a strong America by supporting our present-day Armed Forces, by promoting civic education and patriotism among youth, and by helping them to recognize the difference between liberty and license, between just, democratic peace and the mere absence of war. By demonstrating the virtues of discipline, selflessness, and courage far beyond the field of battle, America's veterans continue to provide outstanding service to the cause of freedom.
On this occasion, let us offer a heartfelt salute to each and every U.S. veteran, especially those who are ill or hospitalized. Let us renew our pledge to obtain the fullest possible accounting for our POWs and MIAs and convey our respect to the brave families of those still missing. Finally, let us remember throughout the year that our freedom -- and that of millions of people around the globe -- would not be possible without our veterans' service and sacrifice.
In order that we may pay due tribute to those who have served in our Armed Forces, the Congress has provided (a)) that November 11 of each year shall be set aside as a legal public holiday to honor America's veterans.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Wednesday, November 11, 1992, as Veterans Day. I urge all Americans to honor our veterans through appropriate public ceremonies and private prayers. I also call on Federal, State and local government officials to display the flag of the United States and to encourage and participate in patriotic activities in their communities. I urge civic and fraternal organizations, churches, schools, businesses, unions, and the media to support this national observance with suitable programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  