
    The American people place inflation at the top of the list of things about which they are concerned. One of the major factors fueling inflation is the slowdown in productivity growth in our country. Productivity per person-hour has decreased from a 3.2 percent annual growth rate to 1.6 percent in recent years. This also has a very adverse effect as we compete with other nations whose productivity growth has been much higher.
Improvement in the growth of productivity is essential, therefore, to the social and economic welfare of the American people. This improvement can be realized if the public and private sectors work together to make the best possible use of technology, capital, and human resources. The Federal Government can make major contributions in improving the utilization of these resources.
This Executive order establishes the National Productivity Council. It will serve as the mechanism for coordinating Federal programs which support productivity improvement in public and private sectors, and for assuring that maximum benefit is realized from these programs. It will be the focal point in the executive branch for productivity efforts, superseding the National Center for Productivity and Quality of Working Life, whose authorization expired at the end of this last fiscal year.
Members of the Council will include those departments and agencies with significant responsibilities related to productivity improvement in the private and public sectors—the Departments of Commerce, Labor, and the Treasury, and the Civil Service Commission—and those agencies with a special interest in productivity improvement—the Council of Economic Advisers, Council on Environmental Quality, Council on Wage and Price Stability, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Science and Technology Policy, and Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget will serve as Chairman of the Council.
As its first item of business I will be asking the Council to undertake several items of study and research which will assist in setting priorities and goals for Federal productivity efforts during the next few years. One of the top priority items of study will be determining the appropriate role of the Federal Government in supporting the productivity improvement efforts of State and local governments. In all of these studies the Council will be seeking advice and assistance from business, labor, and academic leaders, as well as from representatives from State and local governments and others concerned with productivity improvement. I believe that through a cooperative effort we will be able to increase productivity growth and make a significant contribution to controlling inflation and improving the state of our economy.
  