
    Campaign well positioned for competitive final push
SANTA FE, NM- Democratic Presidential Candidate Governor Bill Richardson's campaign filed its third quarter financial report with the Federal Election Commission (FEC) this evening. The report shows the Governor continues to receive significant grassroots support and is well positioned heading into the final months before the primaries and caucuses begin.
The Richardson campaign's FEC report shows the campaign raised more than $5.2 million in the third quarter, with a total of nearly $18.7 raised over the first three quarters of 2007. The campaign has nearly $6 million cash on hand.
"Governor Richardson is running an energetic, lean-and-mean grassroots campaign and we're pleased with the strong financial support we continue to receive," said Amanda Cooper, the Governor's deputy campaign manager. "We're especially excited that more than 22,000 people contributed $200 or less- our grassroots support is growing and those donors can contribute more going forward."
Governor Richardson is the only major candidate calling for the United States to withdraw all troops from Iraq with no residual forces. "That message is resonating with voters across the country and is a real point of difference," added Ms. Cooper. "The other major candidates would all leave thousands of residual troops in Iraq for years- they won't even commit to ending the war by the end of their first term. Governor Richardson would get all US forces out of Iraq by the end of his first year in office."
The Governor has also proposed comprehensive plans to make the US energy independent, to provide universal health coverage for all Americans, and to dramatically improve the nation's education system.
Having served as a Congressman, US Ambassador to the United Nations, Secretary of Energy, and now as two-term Governor of New Mexico, Bill Richardson has a real record of accomplishment and offers both the change and experience America needs in its next President.
  