
    Pool Report by Melissa Brown, The Tennessean 



Sent:
Reports:




October 12, 202214:57 CDT

FLOTUS Pool Report - DNC Event in Tennessee
First Lady Jill Biden attended a private DNC fundraiser Wednesday afternoon in Nashville's Hilsboro-West End neighborhood. Biden spoke for about six minutes, and concluded her remarks around 1:35 p.m.
Chip Forrester, former chairman of the Tennessee Democratic Party, introduced Biden. Forrester also acknowledged several local Democratic candidates in attendance, including gubernatorial candidate Dr. Jason Martin and state Sen. Heidi Campbell, who is vying for Tennessee's newly drawn 5th Congressional District.
FLOTUS spoke about experiences that shaped her childhood, noting politics did not play a major role in her life growing up. Biden said things "really aren't much different" for American families today.
"Most parents don't come home to debate the ins-and-outs of Senate bills," Biden said. "But they know the things they care about. Things like good schools for our kids, job opportunities and affordable health care, safe neighborhoods like this one. Republicans, Democrats and everyone in between."
FLOTUS said people "across this country all want the same things," despite their differences.
"So, when I see politicians out there who treat government like it's a sport, who perform political stunts because they think they think they can score a few more points against the other side, it makes me angry," Biden said. "Governing isn't a game. There's no us versus them. No teams to root for or against. Americans from all walks of life need help and, mostly, hope."
FLOTUS touted President Joe Biden's previous record, including school reopenings amid the COVID pandemic, the gun safety bill passed by Congress this summer and work to "make prescription drugs more affordable for millions of people."
"Just imagine what he could do with a few more partners in Congress," Biden said.
Biden told the gathered crowd "we have to act now" ahead of November's midterm elections.
"I'm here to be your cheerleader, to say keep volunteering and keep giving money," Biden said. "I know you've donated but, if you could, help with just a little bit more. Because politics isn't a game. There are no spectators. We – all of us, all of you – are powerful. Together, we will win this November".
The pool did not see FLOTUS depart. The remainder of the event was closed press. Thanks for following.




 
Pool Reports below by Rory Linnane, Milwaukee Journal Sentinel 



Sent:
Reports:




October 12, 202216:09 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #1 - Milwaukee, WI
Dr. Biden has arrived at General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, where the skies have cleared after a stormy day and a tornado warning in the early afternoon.
Wearing a bright red jacket, she deplaned at 3:56 and was greeted by Milwaukee Mayor Cavalier Johnson and County Executive David Crowley.
With her visit coming less than a month ahead of midterm elections, the FLOTUS plans to see two major Democratic candidates today: Lt. Gov. Mandela Barnes, who is challenging Republican U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson; and Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers, who is facing a challenge from Republican Tim Michels.
Dr. Biden is heading first to the Washington Park Senior Center to deliver remarks to the Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association Representative Assembly. Barnes, his mother LaJuan Barnes, and National Education Association President Becky Pringle are planning to attend. Barnes' mother is a retired teacher.
Then the FLOTUS is scheduled to attend a Milwaukee Public Schools' "Homework Diner" at Westside Academy in Milwaukee, where families will have dinner with teachers and work on homework and literacy activities. Evers and First Lady Kathy Evers are planning to attend.
Dr. Biden previously visited Milwaukee educators last September to discuss the return to in-person learning. In another visit in December, she met with the families of Waukesha Christmas Parade victims.
Background for today from Office of the First Lady:
Background | Wed. Oct. 12th: The First Lady Visits Milwaukee, WI: Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association (MTEA) of the National Education Association (NEA) and Milwaukee Public Schools' "Homework Diner" at Westside Academy
The First Lady Speaks with the Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association (MTEA) of the National Education Association (NEA):
On Wednesday, October 12th at 5:00 PM CT, the First Lady will deliver remarks at the Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association (MTEA) Representative Assembly at Washington Park Senior Center in Milwaukee, WI. This engagement is part of the First Lady's continued efforts to spotlight teachers, showcase respect for the profession, and build the excitement for future teachers – as she often says, the three R's of teaching: recruit, respect, and retain.
NEA President Becky Pringle; Lieutenant Governor Mandela Barnes; and LaJuan Barnes, mother of Lieutenant Governor Barnes and retired MTEA member, will also attend Wednesday's event.
Additional background on Dr. Biden's history as a teacher:

Dr. Biden has been a proud and long-time member of the National Education Association (NEA).
As a classroom teacher for more than 30 years, the First Lady continues to shine a spotlight on teachers and the profession.
Dr. Biden continues to teach English and writing at Northern Virginia Community College, where she has been a professor since 2009.

Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association (MTEA): The Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association (MTEA) is a local union affiliated with the Wisconsin Education Association Council (WEAC), which is an affiliate of the National Education Association (NEA). MTEA represents over 5,000 educators, paraprofessionals, and other staff in Milwaukee's public schools, including 78% of professionals in Milwaukee Public Schools.
National Education Association (NEA): The National Education Association (NEA) represents almost 3 million members nationally and is the largest labor union in the United States. The union includes classroom teachers, education support professionals, higher education staff, retired educators, specialized instructional support personnel, public service employees, and aspiring educators (education college majors). NEA was founded in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in 1857 and merged with the American Teachers Association, an organization representing teachers of color, in 1966.***
The First Lady Visits Launch of Milwaukee Public Schools' Homework Diner:
At 5:30 PM CT, the First Lady, Governor Tony Evers, and First Lady Kathy Evers will visit students, parents, and educators at a Milwaukee Public Schools' "Homework Diner" at Westside Academy in Milwaukee, WI. This "Homework Diner," the first at Westside Academy, aims to build strong partnerships between teachers and families. The First Lady's visit on Wednesday will highlight the Biden Administration's ongoing efforts to support the powerful partnership between teachers and parents in supporting student success, particularly in light of the COVID-19 pandemic as schools continue to support students' learning recovery.
At the Homework Diner, families will share a meal with teachers and work on homework and educational activities together. In preparation for Westside Academy's participation in Milwaukee's upcoming spelling bee, Wednesday's Homework Diner will be literacy-themed with a focus on foundational phonetics. Additional activities include educational games, as well as conversational "dinner table" prompts that aim to facilitate connections between families and teachers, building community and strengthening relationships.
Milwaukee Public Schools and Westside Academy:Milwaukee Public Schools is the school district that operates all public schools in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The school district includes 156 schools, serving over 71,000 PK-12 students. Westside Academy, a Title I public school within MPS in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, serves children in pre-kindergarten through 5th grade. As part of its community school programming, the school works to build relationships with families and the community – including through the Homework Diner program. There is a full-time Community School Coordinator who coordinates partnerships and services at the school. The school expects to host homework diners every month this year.
History of Homework Diners:The Homework Diner concept originated at Manzano Mesa Elementary School in Albuquerque, New Mexico, in 2013. The idea was developed by the school's community schools coordinator and parents who were graduates of a culinary arts program at a local community college. The parents prepared meals for teachers, parents, and students while after-school homework support happened. The concept has since spread to schools as a way of engaging teachers and parents in partnership to support student success and build community.



October 12, 202217:08 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #2 - Milwaukee, WI
Dr. Biden arrived at Washington Park Senior Center in Milwaukee at about 4:50.
She first made an impromptu stop at Valentine Coffee on Vliet Street in Milwaukee as she was running ahead of schedule. With the street shut down, neighbors gathered to catch a glimpse -- or just wait to get their own coffee.
"Milwaukee's really proud if its local roasters so it's cool that she's stopping here," said Kira Walters, sitting in the grass across the street.
At the senior center, Dr. Biden is set to speak with the Representative Assembly of the Milwaukee Teachers' Education Association (MTEA), the union for staff of Milwaukee Public Schools. MTEA is a local affiliate of the National Education Association (NEA).
MTEA is planning to stream her remarks on their Facebook page: https://m.facebook.com/MTEAunion/
Lt. Gov. Mandela Barnes, a Democrat challenging Republican U.S. Sen. Ron Johnson in the midterm election, is also set to be present with his mother, LaJuan Barnes, a retired school teacher who was a MTEA member.
National Education Association President Becky Pringle is also planned to be present.



October 12, 202217:28 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #3 - Milwaukee, WI
At Washington Park Senior Center in Milwaukee, surrounded by union members of the Milwaukee Teachers Education Association, Dr. Biden stressed the importance of their organizing.
"All of us have a teacher voice and now is the time to use it," Biden said.
She referenced Wisconsin's 2011 Act 10, which required public sector unions to vote every year to recertify, saying it was "created in order to weaken unions."
"Despite the obstacles in your way, Milwaukee is and always will continue to be union strong," Biden said.
Lt. Gov. Mandela Barnes greeted Dr. Biden, according to FLOTUS staff. Pool did not see any remarks from Barnes but left before the event was over. Barnes' mother was on stage with Dr. Biden and other union members.



October 12, 202218:16 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #4 - Milwaukee, WI
FLOTUS is now visiting a "Homework Diner" event at Westside Academy in Milwaukee, where students are working on homework and other academic activities while eating dinner with teachers.
Westside Academy is a Milwaukee public school serving students in pre-kindergarten through 5th grade. The school is part of the Community Schools program, a collaboration with United Way that aims to involve students' families in school activities and decision making.
Tonight's Homework Diner is literacy-themed with a focus on foundational phonetics, as students prepare for an upcoming spelling bee. Dinner table prompts are meant to spark conversations between families and teachers.
It's the first Homework Diner at the school since the pandemic. The school plans to host a "Homework Diner" once each month this school year.
The meals tonight are from Daddy's Soul Food and Grille, though school staff said their future events will have food from Sherman Phoenix.
School Principal Renee Drane said one goal of the events is to make parents feel comfortable at the school.
"We want our families to be comfortable when they have questions about homework," Drane said.
Dr. Biden reacted: "We hear so often that it's parents verses the teachers and that's not really true at all… This is just another opportunity to further those relationships."
Dr. Biden was joined by Gov. Tony Evers, First Lady Kathy Evers, Milwaukee Public Schools Superintendent Keith Posley and other local officials. They are all spending time talking to families while sitting at tables in the school's gymnasium.
The First Lady previously taught English and worked as a reading specialist in Delaware high schools. She's now a writing professor at Northern Virginia Community College.



October 12, 202218:23 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #5 - Milwaukee, WI
At the "Homework Diner" event at Westside Academy in Milwaukee, Dr. Biden thanked school staff for inviting her as she stood in front of a large handmade sign covered in painted handprints that read, "WELCOME Jill Biden."
"I love the idea of creating a sense of community, a sense of family where teachers get to know parents," Biden said. "Thanks to all of you for inviting me to be part of this because it's really exciting and I hope it continues to grow."
Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers added: "We see parents, teachers and kids hanging out together, talking about what's important to them… When you do this together, that's when kids learn."
They then took a group photo with the attendees. There looked to be about 40 parents, students and teachers in attendance in the gymnasium.
The pool departed while Dr. Biden was still taking the photo, shortly after 6 p.m.




  