
    By taking bold, decisive action, President Trump saved countless American lives.
President Trump and his administration took the threat of the coronavirus seriously from the beginning, forming the Coronavirus Task Force in January and suspending travel with China, partnering with the private sector to overhaul and expand U.S. testing capacity, securing critical medical equipment, and taking critical steps early on to combat the coronavirus:


According to Dr. Fauci, the Trump Administration "acted very, very early" to combat the spread of the virus and did not delay in putting in place mitigation strategies.

On February 11, top Biden coronavirus advisor Ron Klain admitted the Trump Administration was "far from doing nothing."

Even Democrat governors like Andrew Cuomo praised the Trump Administration's response: "What the federal government did, working with states, was a phenomenal accomplishment."

FACT: The Trump Administration has delivered over 267 million face coverings, 82 million gloves, 42 million surgical masks, and 100 million N95 respirators. 
FACT: President Trump restricted travel from China on January 31, a decision that saved American lives. Joe Biden criticized President Trump's decision as "hysterical xenophobia."
FACT: The Trump Administration partnered with the private sector to successfully launch an unprecedented expansion in coronavirus testing. 


President Trump completely overhauled the old and outdated testing system and replaced it with an innovative new testing strategy to meet the country's needs. 

The United States leads the world in coronavirus testing, with more than 100 million tests completed and more than three million available per day.

"We needed a significant amount of the supply chain from the administration to allow us to at least double testing in New Jersey," said New Jersey Gov. Phil Murphy (D). "We got it… they're helping us out."

The United States is testing and tracking asymptomatic cases of coronavirus, which allows officials to identify and stop local outbreaks faster than other countries.

"We are in a much better place on testing," writes National Review's Rich Lowry, "thanks, in large part, to a Trump-administration strategy that the press scorned, or said didn't exist."

FACT: The federal government launched a historic mobilization of the public and private sectors to secure the U.S. supply chain for critical coronavirus equipment.


President Trump used the FDA and the Defense Production Act dozens of times to expand coronavirus testing technologies and capacity.

National Review: "Production [of ventilators] was ramped up quickly working with manufacturers and occasionally using the DPA." 

FACT: President Trump is keeping his promise to develop a vaccine at record speed.


President Trump launched Operation Warp Speed to guarantee that the American people are first in line for a safe, effective coronavirus vaccine—at no cost—as soon as one is developed.

The Trump Administration announced an historic deal with Pfizer to secure 100 million doses of a vaccine—with nearly half a billion more to potentially follow—as soon as it is successfully approved and manufactured. 

Multiple coronavirus vaccines are now in their final stages of development—an "impressive" accomplishment, according to NIH Director Dr. Francis Collins.

  