
    HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today received the endorsement of Nevada Assembly Majority Whip Jim Wheeler, who had previously endorsed Scott Walker and served as his state co-chair. This is the most recent of several endorsements Sen. Cruz has secured from former Walker supporters, including Nevada Assemblyman and Assistant Majority Floor Leader Ira Hansen, Nevada Assemblywoman Victoria Dooling, along with Julianne Thompson, Rachel Little, and Louie Hunter of Georgia and Iowa State Senator Randy Feenstra.
"I am thrilled to have Jim join our team in Nevada. His record as a principled leader and strong, conservative fighter will be invaluable in our effort to win the Nevada caucuses," Cruz said. "The continued growth of our ground game in Nevada, as well as the early states and beyond is a testament to the courageous conservatives all across the country who are standing up, ready to work together to take our country back. Their passion reinforces my commitment to continue fighting the Washington Cartel so we can restore power and opportunity back to the people."
"While we as a party have the deepest field I have ever seen running for the nomination to our highest office, there is one candidate who stands above the rest in personifying the values I am looking for in a President — and that is Ted Cruz," Wheeler said. "Ted is willing to take on the tough fights for what is right. He is willing to look ahead and see that we can make America even greater than we are. Most importantly, he will follow the Constitution of the United States. If we as Americans don't defend our Constitution, how can we expect it to defend us?"
Jim Wheeler was first elected to the Nevada Assembly in 2012 and is serving his second term, representing District 39 (Douglas, Lyon and Storey Counties), and is Chairman of the Assembly Transportation Committee. He is former CEO of Powerdyne Automotive Products and is a veteran of the U.S. Air Force.
Mr. Wheeler joins other conservative Nevada legislators who have endorsed Sen. Ted Cruz, including Victoria Seaman, Michele Fiore, Victoria Dooling and Ira Hansen, as well as former Nevada Assemblyman Ed Goedhart.
  