
    Trip Will Also Highlight Grassroots Strength of Campaign with Important Endorsements
Des Moines, Iowa – Today, Senator John Edwards launched a four-day "Take a Stand" tour across Iowa to highlight his bold stands on the issues that matter most to the American people. During the trip, Edwards will visit 17 counties to talk to caucus goers and answer their questions about his specific plans for change, including his plans to end the war and stop the abuses by security contractors in Iraq. From ending the war in Iraq to guaranteeing universal health care to revitalizing rural America, Edwards has proposed big, bold ideas to change our country and build One America. The four-day trip will also highlight the grassroots strength of Edwards' campaign, with important organizational announcements along the way.
"Our country faces big challenges and we need more than rhetoric and half measures to meet them," said Edwards. "We need big, bold change – and the starting place for change is in Iraq. Last November, the American people voted for real change in Iraq, but instead the president has refused to change course. Congress needs to stand firm against President Bush and not send him any funding bill than does not include a timeline for withdrawal. No timeline, no funding. No excuses."
Edwards has outlined a plan to end the war in Iraq and bring our troops home to the heroes' welcome they deserve. He believes that in order to get the Iraqi leaders to take responsibility for their country, we must show them that we are serious about leaving, and the best way to do that is to actually start leaving. Edwards would immediately withdraw 40,000 to 50,000 combat troops and require the complete withdrawal of all combat troops within the next nine to ten months. He would also step up U.S. diplomatic efforts by engaging in direct talks with all the nations in the region, including Iran and Syria, to bring a political solution to the sectarian violence inside Iraq, including through a peace conference.
Edwards is also outlining his new plan to put an end to the abuses by private security contractors in Iraq. The Bush Administration's outsourcing of security tasks to private industry and political cronies, combined with its poor management and oversight, has led directly to disasters like the recent tragedy involving a convoy operated by Blackwater, an independent contracting firm that was involved in a firefight in Baghdad that left at least eight Iraqi civilians dead. The actions of Blackwater have damaged America's moral standing in the world.
As president, Edwards will end our current system of outsourcing security missions to private contractors. He will fundamentally reform our system for security contractors by restoring democracy to our military decisions about the war, expanding the rule of law, ensuring accountability by placing all personnel under clear operational command, and eliminating cronyism from the system of contract procurement. For more information on Edwards' plan, please click here for the fact sheet.
  