
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Ambassador Jerry Carmen, a former New Hampshire Republican Party Chairman and Reagan Administration official.
"Jerry Carmen is one of the most respected leaders in the New Hampshire Republican Party. For over 25 years he has fought for the traditional conservative principles of limited government and fiscal responsibility in the Granite State," said Mitt Romney. "I am proud to have earned Ambassador Carmen's support, and I look forward to working with him as I bring my pro-growth message to New Hampshire and voters across the country."
"The coming election is the most important moment for our future as a Nation. We need a true leader now, one who will continue down the path marked by Ronald Reagan's footsteps, a conservative who can win next November and then successfully govern," said Ambassador Carmen. "In my estimation, Mitt Romney is the only candidate in the race with the credentials to carry the Reagan mantle, recapture the White House, and then turn around the American economy. Romney is not a career politician – he's a lifelong businessman. That is exactly what we need in Washington right now; someone who understands how jobs are created."
Background On Ambassador Jerry Carmen:
Jerry Carmen Has Been Active In New Hampshire Politics For Over 25 Years. He served as Chairman of the New Hampshire Republican State Committee from 1975 -1979. He resigned the chairmanship to run northeast political operations for Ronald Reagan's 1980 presidential campaign. He later served in President Reagan's White House and as Administrator of the U.S. General Services Administration from 1981-1984. From 1984-1986 he served as U.S. ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva and was vice chairman of the Trade and Development Board, which reviewed activities of the United Nations Conference on Trade Development. From 1988-1989, he was a member of the George H.W. Bush Presidential transition team. A successful businessman, he was also the first chairman of the New Hampshire Housing Authority.
  