
    WASHINGTON, October 20, 2009 - The Obama Administration today announced that Val Dolcini will serve as California State Executive Director for the Farm Service Agency at the USDA.
"Val Dolcini has a solid understanding of the challenges and opportunities facing our rural communities and will help build on the Obama Administration's efforts to rebuild and revitalize rural America," said Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack.
Dolcini has served as a Senior Manager for the Office of Government Relations in Accenture LLP since 2005. Before then, he served as Lt. Governor Cruz Bustamante's Policy Director where he advised on policy on agriculture, rural development, and business issues. From October 2003 to October 2004, Dolcini was Vice President of the California Constituent Relations office for ACS State and Local Solutions. Dolcini also served as Executive Director of the Farm Service Agency in California during the Clinton administration. In his two years as FSA Director, Dolcini oversaw 200 employees in 32 country offices. He played a key role in developing the FSA's budget, operational plans, and personal services.
USDA's Farm Services Agency works to increase economic opportunity and improve the quality of life for rural Americans. Some of the agency's efforts include facilitating income support, disaster assistance and conservation programs, providing operating loans for the procurement of farm equipment, seed and fertilizer, as well as offering ownership loans to help new and veteran producers purchase a farm. FSA also works to procure various commodities to benefit low-income families through domestic food assistance programs.
The USDA provides leadership on food, agriculture and natural resources and touches the life of every American. Reflecting President Obama's commitment to expanding economic opportunities in rural America, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack and the USDA are working to enhance availability of broadband, promote the development of renewable energy, to conserve, maintain and improve our natural resources and environment, and promote a sustainable, safe, sufficient and nutritious food supply.
  