
    Today's Presidential Action

Today, President Bush submitted to the Congress a supplemental budget request totaling $691.2 million, which builds upon his on-going commitment to provide emergency assistance to areas affected by Hurricane Jeanne.
The funds requested will go primarily to additional emergency resources for the Departments of Agriculture, Defense, the Interior, Transportation, and Veterans Affairs. Funds are also being sought for the Corps of Engineers, the Environmental Protection Agency, and international assistance programs. These funds will provide for a variety of disaster-relief efforts and the repair and restoration of Federal government facilities.
With this request, the total supplemental budget request for Hurricanes Charley, Frances, Ivan, and Jeanne is approximately $12.9 billion.

Presidential Action: Funding Response, Recovery, and Repairs
The $691.2 million request will be divided among several Federal agencies (all funds are in addition to amounts already requested or approved by Congress):

$200 million for the Federal Highway Administration's Emergency Relief Program for emergency repairs to eligible highways and roads affected by Hurricane Jeanne.
$145 million for the U.S. Department of Agriculture:


$130 million for the Natural Resources Conservation Service and the Farm Service Agency to provide cost-share assistance for emergency measures to retard runoff and prevent soil erosion in damaged watersheds, as well as to clean-up and repair farmland and rangelands.
$15 million for the Forest Service for erosion control and restoration of fisheries and endangered species habitat, and for clean-up and repairs needed for roads, trails and facilities in national forests in areas affected by Hurricanes Ivan and Jeanne.


$116.2 million for the Department of Defense for costs associated with evacuation, base preparation, base recovery, and damage to structure and equipment at various military facilities caused by Hurricane Jeanne.
$95 million is requested for the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) for hurricane response and relief. Uses include, but are not limited to, repairing hospitals and outpatient clinics, as well as reimbursing VA for assistance to local communities, and contracting with medical providers for care.
$50 million is requested for international disaster and famine assistance funds for additional relief and rehabilitation requirements stemming from the damage caused by recent hurricanes and tropical storms in Grenada, Jamaica, Haiti, and other nations.
$46 million is requested for the Corps of Engineers to restore navigation channels, repair and rehabilitate coastal areas and beaches, and address other projects in areas affected by Hurricane Jeanne.
$25 million is requested for the Federal Aviation Administration to repair or replace the multiple public use airport facilities that were damaged in the recent storms.
$11 million is requested for the Department of the Interior for clean-up and facility repair at national wildlife refuges and national park units in the affected areas.
$3 million is requested for the Environmental Protection Agency to restore buildings and facilities that were damaged by Hurricane Jeanne.

  