
    WATERLOO, IOWA – Governor Jindal blasted Jeb Bush's plan to repeal and replace Obamacare calling it "Obamacare-lite" and saying Bush would be better suited to make his case for the plan on the Democrat Presidential debate stage tonight. In April 2014, Governor Jindal was the first candidate to propose a detailed plan to repeal and replace all of Obamacare.
Governor Jindal said, "I applaud Governor Bush for introducing a health care plan. I released my plan over a year ago, and I continue to be amazed that no other candidates have demonstrated enough policy interest or depth to even attempt to introduce a plan.
"Unfortunately, both Jeb's plan and Obamacare are both new federal entitlement programs in which the federal government pays for universal health care for all Americans. This is not an opinion, it is a fact.
"Jeb's plan is rejection of the American ideal of individual independence, and an acceptance of the left's demand for more government dependence. Jeb's plan is Obamacare lite.
"President Obama succeeded in doing what Hillary had failed to do years before – to create a new federal entitlement program where the government pays for health care for all Americans. Never mind the fact that our existing entitlement programs are on the verge of bankruptcy.
"If Jeb's health care plan were to become the Republican alternative, it will mean that Obama and the left have won the fundamental debate about health care in America. It will mean that Republicans have decided to surrender and to accept the idea that taxpayers must pay for a new federal entitlement program providing health care for all.
"There is an empty podium available tonight for Joe Biden in the Democrat debate. Jeb should take that spot in order to argue for his Obamacare-lite health care proposal.
"My plan focuses on the real problem with health care in America – the need to reduce costs.
"Finally, it appears that Jeb's plan is silent on the little detail of what it will cost, which is a hallmark of all things Washington."
  