
    The President. Thank you. Folks, thank you for waiting. Thank you for being here. I would like to—first of all, I want you, before you lose all your enthusiasm, join me in thanking our musicians, the Mike Rubow Quintet, the Trinity College—[applause]—thank you very much, from Trinity College. Thank you.
Audience member. Where's Hillary?
The President. Let me say I'm about all talked out tonight. But I want to thank you for being here. Hillary and Chelsea had to go home; thanks for asking. But I believe the American people tonight got an accurate picture of the differences in this election and the stakes in the election. And I personally thought that Senator Dole did a very good job of stating his position. I did the best I could to state mine.
Audience members. Four more years! Four more years! Four more years!
The President. I want to ask you to—I want you to keep cheering that for a month—but I want you to think about this. There are just about 4 weeks left, 4 weeks from Tuesday. And all of you—I'm really glad to see so many young people in this audience tonight. The one thing that is hard to convey in a debate like this, because all the answers and questions, you know, have to be done in a set period of time, is the whole sweep of this time we're living in.
And I just want you to know that my honest belief is that the future that you will live will be the most interesting, unpredictable, and positive ways—time in all of human history, if we do the right things to make sure that everybody has a chance to live up to the fullest of their ability and if we don't forget that the First Lady is right: It does take a village. We have to do this together. We have to do this together. And so, I just want to ask you to——
Audience member. It takes a village to raise a child.
The President. It sure does. Give him a hand. [Applause] And so look—so I want to ask you to keep this enthusiasm for 4 weeks and 2 days and to take a little time every day to engage your friends and neighbors about what's at stake in this election. This is really about how we're all going to live when we start a new century and how this country is going to be when your kids are your age. We're on the right track. You've given me a great boost tonight. Let's bear down and bring it home.
Thank you.
  