
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The success of our American experiment in self-government depends upon the unique character of the American spirit--a spirit that is nurtured, taught by example, and lived by experience within the vital framework of the American family.
It is in our families that we learn, develop and practice those attitudes and concepts of right and wrong, of fairness, of charity, and love of country. Neither schools nor the institutions of government can ever replace the American family in the development of responsible and caring individuals.
Since we believe that every child has the right to grow up in a secure, loving family and that this experience lays the foundation for a happy, productive adulthood, we commend the growing numbers of Americans who are building families through adoption. By this means, thousands of children of all ages, backgrounds and with various special needs have been able to reap the benefits of permanent family membership.
It is within that family circle that each child learns the most important of life's lessons: from parents, love and respect; from grandparents and other elder relatives, wisdom and tolerance. These family experiences nurture our sense of community with others.
In deprivation and abundance, in turmoil and tranquility, Americans have reached out for their destiny from the constant sanctuary of family life.
In recognition of this fundamental role of the family in the development and continued vitality of our Nation, the Congress has requested that the week of Thanksgiving in 1976 be designated as National Family Week (Public Law 94-270, 90 Stat: 372).
Now, Therefore, I, Gerald R. Ford, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning on November 21, 1976, as National Family Week. I invite the Governors of the several States and the chief officials of local governments to observe National Family Week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
I urge all Americans to observe this week by sharing with their families and friends an expression of the bonds between them and a common acknowledgement that through the extended relationships of the family, we will improve the quality of our lives and increase our Nation's store of peace, progress, happiness, and individual liberty.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-six and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and first.

GERALD R. FORD
  