
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that retired Major General James "Spider" Marks will join Romney for President as a Senior Adviser for National Security Affairs. General Marks will advise Governor Romney on issues pertaining to national security, the United States military and foreign policy.
"General Marks brings more than three decades of valuable experience to our campaign. A highly decorated officer, he is intricately familiar with the needs of our military and intelligence communities as well as the families who support these patriots. I look forward to working with him as we expand our blueprint to strengthen the military and our country's national defense," said Governor Romney. "A stronger America means a stronger military. We need to re-invest in our Armed Forces by adding at least 100,000 more Soldiers and dedicating at least four percent of our GDP to national defense. We must always honor our nation's commitment to the men and women of our military."
Governor Romney has outlined a strong strategy to strengthen our military and intelligence communities. In April 2007, Governor Romney proposed adding at least 100,000 more troops to our Armed Forces and committing at least four percent of our gross domestic product to our national defense. This will help provide the resources needed for equipment, modernization, training, treatment and care of our wounded Soldiers. As President, Governor Romney will also create the Special Partnership Force to unite our civilian, intelligence and military efforts and partner with our allies to defeat jihadists in the unstable areas where they thrive.
Joining Romney for President, General Marks said, "Governor Romney has been outspoken in his commitment to our men and women in the military. Our troops need more support from Washington and Governor Romney will ensure that they have the resources they need to defend this country. I am proud to be joining Governor Romney's campaign. On national security issues, the Governor has distinguished himself as a true leader ready to invest in our national defense."
Background On Retired Major General James "Spider" Marks:
Major General James Marks Retired From Active Duty In October 2004 After More Than 30 Years Of Service To Our Country. A graduate of the United States Military Academy, General Marks has more than three decades of experience in the Intelligence field. During his career, he held command and staff assignments from infantry platoon leader and infantry company commander in the 101st Airborne Division to senior intelligence officer for the Coalition Land Forces during combat operations in Iraq as part of Operation Iraqi Freedom. He concluded his career as the Commanding General of the United States Army Intelligence Center and Fort Huachuca, Arizona. Currently, he resides in Virginia and is the President and CEO of Global Linguist Solutions, Falls Church, Virginia. He is a contributor to the BBC and was also a military analyst for CNN.
His awards and decorations include: the Distinguished Service Medal, the Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit with one Oak Leaf Cluster, Bronze Star, Defense Meritorious Service Medal, the Meritorious Service Medal with four Oak Leaf Clusters, the Army Commendation Medal, the Army Achievement Medal with one Oak Leaf Cluster, the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, the Global War on Terrorism Expeditionary and Service Medals, the Korean Defense Service Medal, and the NATO Medal.
  