
    Prime Minister and Mrs. Lee, Mr. Secretary of State, General McConnell, ladies and gentlemen:
This morning, America welcomes a patriot, a brilliant political leader, and a statesman of the New Asia.
You come to us, Mr. Prime Minister, from a continent that is free of colonialism, eager to build independent nations, anxious to give all of its people a better life.
You come from a great and fabulous city-now a free nation--that has long been the crossroads of the Orient. Through Singapore, the tide of empire once flowed, and has now ebbed. Singapore has seen war--and now wants peace.
Singapore has known bitter poverty--and now builds toward prosperity. Under your leadership, sir,
--The people of Singapore now enjoy the second highest per capita income in all of Asia.
--The children of Singapore are all assured of virtually free education through high school.
--The residents of Singapore--not only its citizens, but all the people who live there--have free medical care available to them.
--In Singapore, nearly one out of three people now lives in government-built housing, a program without peer in the entire world. By 1972 half the population will live there at rents that are well within their means.
So Singapore is a very bright example of what can be accomplished not only in Asia, but in Africa and Latin America--wherever men work for a life of freedom and dignity.
Your people have wisely followed the road of regionalism. They are taking part in the cooperative organizations that promise so much for the future of Southeast Asia. You have found--in fruitful cooperation with your neighbors--the key to your nation's progress in the modern world.
I know that you are looking ahead, beyond the Asia of today, to the Asia of the 1970's. You want and deserve to know what will be America's interest in the New Asia.
I trust that your visit here will give you these answers. I think you will find an America that looks beyond the conflict of today, to an Asia that realizes its promise, that lives at peace with itself and with others.
All that we have done, and all that we shall do, is intended to help bring that Asia into being.
Because you have spoken for that New Asia--and even more, because you have so brilliantly labored to achieve it--we are so glad to have you in this country. We welcome you here to our White House this morning. I look forward eagerly to the conversations we will have with each other in the time ahead. We are so pleased that you could have your lady with you here at this time.
  