
    Rejoining the Paris Climate Accord would crush middle-class Americans.
Joe Biden has pledged to rejoin the job-killing Paris Climate Accord on day one of entering the Oval Office, returning America to an era of subsidizing other countries, killing our jobs with onerous regulations, and putting America last!
The consequences of the Paris Climate Accord for American workers and the middle class would be devastating:


Economists estimate that American households would spend between 15% and 20% more for their electricity under the accord.

It would kill 400,000 American jobs per year, including 200,000 manufacturing jobs.

The Paris Climate Accord would cost American families of four $30,000 per year, and cost the U.S. economy a shocking $2.5 trillion.

Joe Biden's running-mate Kamala Harris has also pledged to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord. Biden and Harris would put the power to regulate the U.S. economy back into the hands of unaccountable, foreign bureaucrats that will never put American workers first. 
Rejoining the Paris Climate Accord is only part of Joe Biden's radical, job-killing climate agenda:


Biden has made clear that American fracking jobs would be on the chopping block.

Biden said socialist Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez's Green New Deal doesn't go too far, and that his plan goes "beyond" what she proposed.

Biden supports a job-killing carbon tax.

Biden angrily asserted that "no one is gonna build a new coal burning [plant]" and said we need to "shut the ones down we have."

Biden has told left-wing activists on several occasions that he would "love to make sure we can't use any oil or gas, period" and that he would "end" and "get rid of" fossil fuels.

Biden even admitted he would willingly "sacrifice" "hundreds of thousands" of fossil fuel jobs in pursuit of his anti-energy agenda.

Kamala Harris has fully embraced Biden's extreme agenda that would crush the middle class.


Kamala Harris said she would "end any fossil fuel leases on public lands."

Harris told a voter, "there's no question I'm in favor of banning fracking."

Harris she would "Yes!" ban offshore drilling. (Biden agrees.)

Harris joined Biden in his crusade against plastic straws.

Harris said Americans need to be "educated about the effect of our eating habits on our environment," and pledged to change the dietary guidelines to reduce Americans' red meat consumption.

Joe Biden and Kamala Harris' plan to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord and impose their extreme climate agenda would cripple our economy with burdensome regulations. It would be exactly the wrong approach as our country recovers from the coronavirus pandemic, and it would certainly stop President Trump's Great American Comeback in its tracks.
  