
    Pool Reports by Katherine Doyle, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




October 5, 202110:36

Travel pool report #1 — Checking in 
Good morning — I'll be your out of town pooler for the President Biden's trip to Howell, Michigan today. Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard AF1.
Here's the schedule for today's travel:
11:30 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Joint Base AndrewsSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather 11:15 AM – Palm Room Doors)
11:50 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Lansing, MichiganJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
1:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Lansing, MichiganCapital Region International AirportOpen Press
1:55 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Howell, MichiganLivingston County Spencer J. Hardy AirportOut-of-Town Pool
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT visits the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 training facilityInternational Union of Operating Engineers Local 324, Howell, MichiganOut-of-Town Pool
3:30 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on the bipartisan infrastructure bill and his Build Back Better agenda, which will make our country more competitive and grow our economyInternational Union of Operating Engineers Local 324, Howell, MichiganOut-of-Town Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media
4:30 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Howell, Michigan en route Lansing, MichiganLivingston County Spencer J. Hardy AirportOut-of-Town Pool
4:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Lansing, Michigan en route Joint Base AndrewsCapital Region International AirportOpen Press
6:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
6:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press and Pooled for TV (Gather 6:30 PM – Palm Room Doors)
And re-sharing the below policy memo passed along by the White House last night:
BACKGROUND MEMORANDUM
TO: Out-of-Town Travel PoolFROM: White House Press OfficeDATE: October 4, 2021
RE: Background on IIJA and BBB for the President's Visit to Michigan
Impact of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act on Michigan
The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make a generational investment in Michigan's infrastructure and resilience.
Roads and Bridges:

In Michigan there are 1,219 bridges and over 7,300 miles of highway in poor condition.
Infrastructure is a key priority for Governor Whitmer. As Governor, she launched the "Rebuilding Michigan Program," a 5-year program to rebuild state highways and bridges. The program is estimated to create 22,000 good-paying union construction jobs this year alone.
Based on formula funding alone, Michigan will receive $7.3 billion for federal-aid highways and $563 million for bridges.

Public Transportation:

Michiganders who take public transportation spend an extra 68% of their time commuting. 17% of transit vehicles in the state are past useful life.
Based on formula funding alone, Michigan will receive $1 billion to improve public transportation options.

Electric Vehicles (EVs):

Governor Whitmer has made it a priority make Michigan a leader in electric vehicles. She recently announced a number of proposals to expand EV charging along key travel routes across the state.
Michigan will expect to receive $110 million over five years to support the expansion of an EV charging network in the state.

High-Speed Internet:

14% of Michigan households do not have an internet subscription.
Michigan will receive a minimum allocation of $100 million to help provide broadband coverage across the state, including providing access to the 398,000 Michiganders who currently lack it.

Water:

Delivering clean water is a key priority for Governor Whitmer. Last year she launched MI Clean Water, a $500 million investment to rebuild water infrastructure to provide clean, affordable water to communities.
Michigan would expect to receive $1.3 billion to improve water infrastructure in the state.

Resilience:

From 2010 to 2020, Michigan experienced 19 extreme weather events.
The bill includes a $50 billion national investment in resilience to strengthen our infrastructure for the impacts of climate change.

Impact of the Build Back Better Agenda on Michigan
The Build Back Better agenda will make life better for millions of working families in Michigan.
Child Care:

The average two-parent household spends $10,400 to care for just one young child every year.
The Build Back Better plan cuts child care costs by more than half for most low- and middle-income Michigan and improves quality of child care.

Universal Pre-K:

Less than a third of 3- and 4-year-olds in Michigan are enrolled in publicly-funded pre-school.
The plan will provide free, high-quality pre-school to all 3- and 4-year-olds in Michigan.

Tax Cut for Families with Children and Childless Workers:

Nearly 230,000 children in Michigan (11% of those under the age of 18) are considered poor.
The plan's Child Tax Credit extension will benefit nearly 2 million children in Michigan, reducing child poverty by 44%.
Before the American Rescue Plan, low-income childless workers were taxed into poverty.
The plan's expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit for childless workers will benefit more than 570,000 workers in Michigan.

Higher Education:

The average cost of a 2-year degree in Michigan is $4,000 per year.
The plan provides at least two years of free community college to all students and expands the maximum Pell Grant by nearly $1,500, supporting the 174,000 students in Michigan who rely on Pell for their education.

Housing:

514,000 Michiganders spend more than 30% of their income on rent.
The plan will bolster affordable and resilient housing, supporting the construction or rehabilitation of more than two million homes, including 31,000 new or preserved rental homes in Michigan through the Low Income Housing Tax Credit.

Child Nutrition:

16% of children in Michigan live in food insecure households.
The plan will expand access to free school meals to an additional 243,000 students and provide 832,000 students with resources to purchase food over the summer.




October 5, 202112:00

Travel pool report #2 - JBA 
Marine One touched down at JBA at 11:51. President Biden stepped out 11:54 and was greeted by Colonel William "Chris" McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice Commander. POTUS boarded Air Force One at 11:55 am. He did not take any questions.
AF1 was wheels up en route Lansing, Michigan, at 11:59 am.
From the WH — Traveling with the President to Michigan:

Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council (t)
Sasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security Council
Karine Jean-Pierre, Principal Deputy Press Secretary
Stephen Goepfert, Personal Aide, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President and Trip Director
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Dan Cluchey, Senior Presidential Speechwriter




October 5, 202113:33

Travel pool report #3 - Lansing, MI greeters / Rep. Slotkin
Air Force One landed at Capital Region International Airport in Lansing, Michigan, at 1:20 pm.
POTUS exited the plane at 1:31 pm
Greeting the President at Capital Region International Airport was Lansing Mayor Andy Schor, per the White House.
Rep. Elissa Slotkin is also here and is speaking with the president and Schor.
We have a bad weather call so will be motorcading to the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 training facility instead of taking Marine One.



October 5, 202113:47

Travel pool report #4 - Motorcade
?President Biden’s motorcade began rolling from Capital Region International Airport at 1:34 pm. Rep. Elissa Slotkin is riding with him.
The drive is about 45 mins.



October 5, 202114:36

Travel pool report #5 - Howell arrival
Pool arrived at the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 training facility in Howell at 2:23 pm.
Biden supporters and protestors held signs near the entrance to the facility. Some examples:
"You saved us, Mr. President."
"Abolish the filibuster"
"We love you, Joe"
"Say no to sleepy Joe"
"Stop insane government spending"
POTUS is participating in a photo line before touring the facility at 3 pm and remarks at 3:30 pm. Participants below.
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President:

Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer
Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)
Rep. Dan Kildee (MI-05)
Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12)
Rep. Andy Levin (MI-09)
Rep. Rashida Tlaib (MI-13)
Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14)
Michigan Attorney General Dana Nessel
Michigan Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II
Howell Mayor Nick Proctor
Michigan State Senate Minority Leader Jim Ananich
Michigan State House Minority Leader Donna Lasinski
Ron Bieber, President, Michigan AFL-CIO
Steve Claywell, President, Michigan Building Trades
Ken Dombrow, President, International Union of Operating Engineers
Jeff Soth, International Legislative and Political Director, International Union Operating Engineers




October 5, 202114:55

Travel pool report #6 - Operating Engineers Training Facility tour 2 min warning
Two min warning to President Biden’s tour of the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 training facility. He’ll be joined by Michigan Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, Michigan Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II, and Rep. Elissa Slotkin.
From the White House:
Joining the President on a tour of the Operating Engineers Training Facility:

Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer
Michigan Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II
Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)

Conducting the tour of the training facility:

John Osika, Training Director, Operating Engineers Local 324 [tour guide]

Tour stop 1: Virtual Reality Lab

John Hartwell, Career and Outreach Representative, Operating Engineers 324, gives an overview of the virtual reality crane operations simulator that is used to prepare apprentices and union members for their commercial driver’s license.
Mark Zinser, Instructor, Local 324’s Journeyman & Apprentice Training Fund, Inc.
Tim Butcher, Instructor, Local 324’s Journeyman & Apprentice Training Fund, Inc.

Tour stop 2: Main Shop Floor

Steve McFarland, Shop Foreman, Technician Instructor and Apprentice Coordinator for Technicians gives an overview of the overhead crane that is used to train the apprentices and union members.

Biden’s remarks after the tour will be streamed in the usual places.



October 5, 2021
[APP Note: Report #7 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


October 5, 202115:46

Travel pool report #8 - POTUS remarks started
President Biden began his remarks at 3:38 pm. He was introduced by John Osika, Training Director at the Operating Engineers Local 324.
POTUS thanked Rep. Slotkin for her advice and said he would make sure every part of his legislation is paid for.
Sitting front row are Michigan Reps. Debbie Dingell and Dan Kildee, Sen. Andy Levin
Remarks are being streamed live.
Speaking program:

Michigan Governor Gretchen Whitmer
Rep. Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)
John Osika, Training Director, Operating Engineers Local 324 [introducing the President]




October 5, 202116:21

Travel pool report #9 — remarks end / questions
?POTUS finished speaking at 3:14 pm and took several questions that were hard to hear. Will send cleaner quotes when I can.
Q: What are you willing to cut?POTUS said he would seek package everyone can agree on but it will be less than $3.5 trillion.
On Sen. Manchin: "It sure seems like he's moving. I hope that's the case."
Pool began loading into vans at 4:16pm. Motorcade began rolling at 4:17 pm
Please note a correction in my last report: Rep. Andy Levin not Senator. Your pooler regrets the error!



October 5, 202116:38

Travel pool report #10 - Livingston County airport departure
Motorcade arrived at Livingston County Spencer J. Hardy Airport at 4:25 pm.
POTUS will travel to Capital Region Int’l Airport via Marine One. M1 was wheels up at about 4:26 pm.
Pool loaded into Ospreys at 4:28 pm and was up at 4:31 pm.



October 5, 202117:03

Travel pool report #11 - questions on tarmac
Marine One landed at Capital Region Int'l Airport at 4:47 pm. POTUS stepped out at 4:50 pm and took several questions from reporters. It was hard to hear - please check against video/ transcript.
Debt ceiling part of reconciliation? I don't believe Republicans will be irresponsible enough to stand in the way.
Asked about Trump signs outside his event earlier: "Makes me smile. I get more pumped up."
About his call with frontline moderates earlier today: Moderates are on the same page as I am, Biden said
Asked if he was concerned about Democrats holding Rep. Slotkin's seat, Biden said no and that he likes her a lot.
Do you still have confidence in Fed Chair Powell? Biden said yes but he was still catching up.
Pool Osprey arrived a few minutes before at 4:41 pm.
AF1 was wheels up at 5:01 pm for JBA.



October 5, 202118:17

Travel pool report #12 - more quotes from tarmac
Fuller quotes from the gaggle with President Biden before take off:
How are you going to trim a trillion dollars? What's going to have to go?
"My objective is to get everything that I campaigned on passed … it won't all happen at once."
Is means testing part of that? "Sure."
Hyde Amendment: "I think that's something that's going to have to be decided based on the whole package."
Meeting with moderates "went very well."
Asked if they are on the same page as Sen. Manchin, Biden said: "I think they are on the same page as I am. I'm not being facetious when I say that."
"Every major fundamental shift that has taken place in the American economy has seldom ever come from one single piece of legislation."
How to proceed if McConnell will not cooperate on debt ceiling hike?
"There's not many options if they're going to be that irresponsible … There's not much time left to do it by reconciliation."
Said, "I don't think they are going to end up being that irresponsible."
Do you still have confidence in Fed chair Powell?
"Thus far yes, I'm just catching up on some of these assertions."
How did you get Sen. Manchin to move towards a higher number? Manchin: "We've had many, many talks that I've had with Sen Manchin as well as Sen. Schumer to decide what it is they like in the Build Back Better plan and we go from there."



October 5, 202118:28

Travel pool report #13 - JBA arrival
?Air Force One landed at JBA at 6:13 pm. We are about 15 mins ahead of schedule.
President Biden exited AF1 at 6:22 pm and waved at the press and mouthed "go home." It's drizzling here. He took no questions.
POTUS entered Marine One at 6:24 pm. It was wheels up from JBA for the White House South Lawn at 6:27 pm.
Thanks to my fellow poolers for all of your help.
Handing off to in town pool.




 
Pool Reports below by Tina Sfondeles, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




October 5, 202111:41

In-town pool report #1 
Good morning from the White House where it’s suddenly a little sunny and 74 degrees.
Marine One departed the South Lawn at 11:40 a.m., and POTUS is heading to Joint Base Andrews.
The President walked out wearing a navy blue suit and light blue tie. He waved to the press and smiled but did not answer questions. He also gave a thumbs up. Questions about the debt ceiling were shouted to no avail.
POTUS is flying to Howell, Michigan today to deliver remarks on the bipartisan infrastructure bill and his Build Back Better agenda. He is scheduled to speak at 3 p.m. at an International Union of Operating Engineers Local 324 facility. This is his fourth trip to Michigan as president.



October 5, 202111:43

In-town pool report #2 
Passing along from the White House:
Traveling with the President on Marine One to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



October 5, 202118:52

In-town pool report #3 
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 6:40 p.m. under a white and gray sky.
The president emerged wearing a black face mask and then approached reporters and took some questions.
The president said he'll continue to both talk to lawmakers and meet with them to try to build support. He was asked if he'd sign it with the Hyde amendment: "I'd sign it either way."
He also took a question about Taiwan.
POTUS walked away but came back to answer one more question.
"We'll be talking about that in a little bit," he said when asked about an FDA commissioner.
POTUS walked into the residence at 6:44 p.m.



October 5, 202119:07

In-town pool report #4
Some more quotes from POTUS arrival. Please check with transcript.
"I want to get the bill passed," he said when asked if he was OK with the Hyde Amendment being in the reconciliation bill. Would he sign it anyway? "I'd sign it either way…"
"I'm not sure yet. It's not finished yet," the president said when asked what will be cut from the final bill.
Asked about Democrats using the nuclear option to raise the debt limit — using a carveout with the filibuster to raise the debt limit: "Oh I think that's a real possibility."
Any comment on provocation over Taiwan: "China has…I've spoken with Xi about Taiwan. We agree, we will abide by the Taiwan agreement. That's where we are and I made it clear that I don't think he should be doing anything other than abiding by the agreement."



October 5, 202119:12

In-town pool report #5
A travel/photo lid was called at 7:11 p.m.
Enjoy the rest of your Tuesday.




  