
    To Ambassador Elliot Richardson
Thank you for your letter. I accept with reluctance your resignation as Ambassador at Large and Special Representative of the President of the United States of America for the Law of the Sea Conference and Chief of Delegation, effective on a date to be determined.
I deeply appreciate your contributions to the conduct of our foreign policy. You have ably represented the interests of the United States. Your contributions to the Law of the Sea Conference and the delicate negotiations encompassing it have been especially meaningful. I greatly appreciate your valuable insights and tireless efforts.
With best wishes,
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
[The Honorable Elliot L. Richardson, Ambassador at Large and Special Representative for the Law of the Sea Conference, Department of State, Washington, D.C.]
September 26, 1980
Dear Mr. President:
I respectfully request that you accept my resignation as your Special Representative to the Law of the Sea Conference as of October 3, 1980.
The goal of a mutually acceptable Convention on the Law of the Sea is now close to fulfillment. Although several important issues remain to be settled at the Tenth Session of the Conference, there is now every likelihood that the Convention can be completed and opened for signature before the end of next year. Knowing that the remaining tasks will be in the hands of an extremely competent and experienced delegation, I feel able in good conscience to let personal considerations bring about my long-deferred return to private life.
It has been a great privilege to have had a part during the past nearly four years in an undertaking that can have so much importance for the prevention of conflict and the extension of the rule of law. The effort has been difficult, demanding, and sometimes frustrating, but never boring. I leave it reluctantly and with sincere appreciation for your confidence and support.
I hope, in any case, to continue to be useful in furthering the objectives of the Conference and would be happy to be called upon in a private capacity to assist in any appropriate way to bring the negotiations to a final and fruitful conclusion.
Respectfully,
ELLIOT L. RICHARDSON
[The President, The White House.]
  