
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint thirteen individuals and designate one to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Patricia N. Moller, of Arkansas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Burundi. Ms. Moller, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as the Deputy Chief of Mission in the Republic of Georgia. Prior to this, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Yerevan, Armenia. Earlier in her career, she was the Administrative Officer in Belgrade, Serbia and Montenegro. Ms. Moller has also served as Assistant Country Officer for Vietnam. Ms. Moller received her bachelor's degree from the University of Tampa.
The President intends to nominate Carol van Voorst, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Iceland. Ms. van Voorst, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Chief of Mission in Vienna. Prior to this, she served as Director of Austrian, German and Swiss Affairs in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs at the Department of State. Ms. van Voorst has also served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Helsinki, Finland and as Deputy High Representative in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. Ms. van Voorst received her bachelor's degree from Hope College. She received her master's degree and PhD from Princeton University. Ms. van Voorst went on to receive a second master's degree from the National War College.
The President intends to nominate Ross Wilson, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkey. Mr. Wilson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as Executive Assistant and Chief of Staff to the Deputy Secretary of State. Prior to this, he served as Chief United States Negotiator for the Free Trade Area of the Americas at the Office of the United States Trade Representative. Earlier in his career, he was Ambassador to the Republic of Azerbaijan. Mr. Wilson has also served as Principal Deputy to the Ambassador-at Large and Special Advisor to the Secretary of State for the New Independent States of the former Soviet Union. Mr. Wilson received his bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota and master's degrees from Columbia University and the National War College.
The President intends to appoint Stephen Friedman, of New York, to be a Member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, for a term of two years, beginning on December 20, 2005. Upon appointment, the President intends to designate him Chairman of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board and Member and Chairman of the Intelligence Oversight Board.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board, for a term of two years:


  James L. Barksdale of Mississippi
  Arthur B. Culvahouse of Virginia
  William O. DeWitt, Jr. of Ohio
  Admiral James O. Ellis (Ret.) of Georgia
  Donald L. Evans of Texas
  Martin Faga of Virginia
  Lee Hamilton of Indiana
  Ray Hunt of Texas
  David E. Jeremiah of Virginia
  John L. Morrison of Minnesota
  Elizabeth Pate-Cornell of California

The President intends to appoint Stefanie R. Osburn, of Virginia, to be Executive Director of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board. Ms. Osburn currently serves as Chief of Staff for the Deputy Director of National Intelligence for Management at the Central Intelligence Agency. Prior to this, she served as Chief of Staff for the Deputy Director of Center Intelligence for Community Management. Ms. Osburn, who has been with the CIA for over 20 years, has also served as Chief of Program Analysis, Chief of Policy, the Hard Target Executive Secretary, Chief of Security, Chief of Plans and Senior Program Analyst. Ms. Osburn received her bachelor's degree from the University of Georgia Southern.
  