
    Pool Reports by Toluse Olorunnipa, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




October 26, 202208:43

In-town pool report #1 – checking in, Kirby to join briefing
Good morning and happy Wednesday –
It's 59 degrees and cloudy in Washington, where President Biden has a busy schedule of events today.
The White House sends along this update about the 2pm press briefing:
"Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by National Security Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby at today's press briefing."
Also today, POTUS is scheduled to deliver remarks on new actions to provide families with more breathing room, host a bilat with President Isaac Herzog of Israel, meet with Department of Defense leaders, and participate in three virtual political events.
The full schedule from the White House, sent out last night, is below:
EDT
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
9:50 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on new actions to provide families with more breathing roomSouth Court AuditoriumPre-Credentialed Media (Gather 10:20 AM – Stakeout Location) [RSVP here [whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com] by 7:30 PM]
12:45 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts a bilateral meeting with President Isaac Herzog of IsraelOval OfficeRestricted In-House Pool Spray (Gather 12:35 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT meets with Department of Defense leadersState Dining RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 2:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)
7:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Representative Matt Cartwright (PA-08)Virtual
8:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Representative Cynthia Axne (IA-03)Virtual
8:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Members of Congress in NevadaVirtual
Briefing Schedule
2:00 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre



October 26, 202210:25

In-Town Pool Report #2: Gathering
The press has gathered ahead of Biden's speech this morning in the South Court Auditorium.
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on new actions to provide families with more breathing roomSouth Court Auditorium
You can watch the remarks here:
https://youtu.be/NWlLN1V8TyQ



October 26, 202211:19

In-Town Pool Report #3: 2-minute warning for POTUS remarks
A 2-minute warning was announced at 11:17am for the president's remarks.



October 26, 202211:22

In-Town Pool Report #4: event begins + background
POTUS walked into the room at 11:18am, and was introduced by Director Rohit Chopra, Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.
POTUS began speaking at 11:21am.
The speech is being broadcast live:
https://youtu.be/NWlLN1V8TyQ
Background from the WH:
The President delivers remarks on new actions to provide families with more breathing room:
AttendeesDirector Rohit Chopra, Consumer Financial Protection BureauChair Lina Khan, Federal Trade Commission
Speaking OrderDirector Rohit Chopra, Consumer Financial Protection BureauThe President



October 26, 202211:35

In-Town Pool Report #5: event concludes, no Q&A
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 11:34am, after speaking for about 13 minutes.
He did not answer any shouted questions.



October 26, 202212:51

In-Town Pool Report #6: pool gathering ahead of Israel bilat
The pool is gathered outside the Oval Office for the bilat
12:45 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts a bilateral meeting with President Isaac Herzog of IsraelOval OfficeRestricted In-House Pool Spray (Gather



October 26, 202212:58

In-Town Pool Report #7: bilat begins
The pool entered the Oval Office at 12:52pm
POTUS and President Herzog were standing in front in chairs and then sat down and began speaking after. The press arrived.
POTUS:
"Tomorrow, Israel and Lebanon are going to sign an agreement to establish a permanent--permanent--maritime boundary" between the two countries.
Said it took "guts" to do it and commended President Herzog for the agreement. POTUS said the US has an "ironclad" commitment to Israel.
"I've often said, Mr. President, were there not an Israel, we'd have to invent one," POTUS said.
Please check quotes against transcript. More to come as the bilat is ongoing.



October 26, 202213:04

In-Town Pool Report #8: bilat ends, no Q&A
After both leaders finished speaking at 12:59pm, there was a chorus of shouted questions from the press. POTUS and President Herzog smiled but did not engage. Pool was ushered out at 1pm.



October 26, 202213:21

In-Town Pool Report #9: more bilat quotes, Herzog indicates POTUS to attend COP27 + attendees
Here are a few more quotes from the recently concluded bilat. Please check against official transcript.
POTUS:
"I was bragging to the president--I have been presented by the President, with the Israeli Presidential Medal of Freedom which is behind me over there. We're very proud of that. So thank you for that honor."
"And tomorrow, Israel and Lebanon are going to sign an agreement to establish a permanent--a permanent--maritime boundary between the two countries. I think it's a historic breakthrough--it took a lot of courage for you to step up and step into it, and it took some real guts, and I think it took principle and persistent diplomacy to get it done. And I compliment you and I compliment the government."
He said the agreement would "allow the development of energy fields for both countries, and it's going to create new hope and economic opportunities for the people in Lebanon and it enhances stability and security for the people of Israel."
Of note, President Herzog appeared to indicate that President Biden will be attending COP27 in Egypt.
Herzog: "One item that you and I will be participating in, Mr. President, with leaders from all over the world is COP27 in Sharm-el-Sheikh in Egypt a few weeks down the road."
Attendees for the bilat, via the WH:
The President holds a bilateral meeting with President Isaac Herzog of Israel:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Thomas Nides, Ambassador of the United States to the State of IsraelT.H. Brett McGurk, Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security CouncilT.H. Barbara Leaf, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern AffairsT.H. Terry Wolff, Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security CouncilMs. Kimberly Harrington, Director for Israel and Palestinian Affairs, National Security Council
Israel ManifestH.E. Isaac Herzog, President of the State of IsraelH.E. Michael Herzog, Ambassador of the State of Israel to the United StatesMr. Eyal Shviki, Director General of the President's ResidenceMr. Zvi Aviner-Vapni, Foreign Policy Advisor to the PresidentMrs. Diklah Cohen Sheinfeld, Chief of Staff to the PresidentBrigadier General Naama Rozen Grimberg, Military Secretary to the PresidentMs. Shirly Heller, Senior Advisor to the President for International AffairsMr. Eliav Benjamin, Deputy Chief of Mission for the Embassy of the State of Israel



October 26, 202214:04

In-Town Pool Report #10: Briefing Delayed. Will now take place after Defense leaders spray
From the White House:
"The briefing will now begin immediately after the DOD pool spray."
From the original schedule:
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT meets with Department of Defense leadersState Dining RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 2:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)



October 26, 202215:00

In-Town Pool Report #11: pool gathered for Defense Department leaders spray
The pool has assembled outside the State Dining Room ahead of the president's meeting with Defense Department leaders.
The press briefing is set to start after the pool spray ends.



October 26, 202215:21

In-Town Pool Report #12: Defense leaders meeting starts
Pool entered the State Dining room at 3:16pm
Several Defense Department officials were seated at a long table, with POTUS in the middle of the table flanked by Sec. Austin and Gen. Miley.
POTUS began by thanking the military leaders and "honoring the memory of our 25th Secretary of Defense, Ash Carter"
POTUS said he spoke to Carter's wife recently.
"He was a leader of enormous integrity."
POTUS went on to acknowledge women who are leading in the military, and other top leaders.
"We have a long way to go but it's important to keep highlighting the growing diversity" in the military.
Please check quotes against transcript. More to come as the spray is ongoing.



October 26, 202215:37

In-Town Pool Report #13: Meeting with Defense leaders ends; no questions
Press was quickly ushered out at 3:25pm after POTUS finished speaking. No shouted questions were answered by POTUS, and some questions were drowned out by shouts of "Thank you press!"
During his remarks, POTUS referred to the US being in the midst of a "decisive decade."
"The world is changing," he said, adding that the US would "continue to lead" on the world stage with diplomacy "backed by the finest fighting force in the history of the world."
He also said the US would continue to lead on a number of issues, from Russia's aggression in Ukraine to climate change to the Indo-Pacific.
Of China, he said "we do not seek conflict with them."
He said he has spoken with Xi Jinping often and said "we have a responsibility to manage increasingly intense competition with China"
"We are looking for stiff competition--doesn't have to be conflict" but we are going to compete.
He said being commander-in-Chief is the greatest honor of his life, adding that his late son Beau would tease him about it, offering a mock salute at times. He did not say when this took place.
POTUS waited for the press to leave before continuing the meeting.
Via the WH, Attendees below:
Secretary Lloyd Austin, U.S. Department of DefenseJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President and Counselor to the PresidentJon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President and Homeland Security Advisor and Deputy National Security AdvisorDeputy Secretary Kathleen Hicks, U.S. Department of DefenseChristine Wormuth, Secretary of the U.S. ArmyCarlos Del Toro, Secretary of the U.S. NavyFrank Kendall, Secretary of the U.S. Air ForceGeneral Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, U.S. ArmyAdmiral Christopher Grady, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, U.S. NavyGeneral David Berger, Commandant of the U.S. Marine CorpsGeneral James McConville, Chief of Staff of the U.S. ArmyAdmiral Michael Gilday, Chief of Naval Operations, U.S. NavyGeneral John Raymond, Chief of Space Operations, U.S. Space ForceGeneral Charles Q. Brown, Jr., Chief of Staff of the U.S. Air ForceGeneral Daniel Hokanson, Chief of the National Guard Bureau, U.S. ArmyAdmiral Linda Fagan, Commandant of the U.S. Coast GuardGeneral Paul Nakasone, Commander, U.S. Cyber Command, U.S. ArmyAdmiral Charles Richard, Commander, U.S. Strategic Command, U.S. NavyGeneral Glen VanHerck, Commander, U.S. Northern Command, U.S. Air ForceGeneral James Dickinson, Commander, U.S. Space Command, U.S. ArmyAdmiral John Aquilino, Commander, U.S. Indo-Pacific Command, U.S. NavyGeneral Jaqueline Van Ovost, Commander, U.S. Transportation Command, U.S. Air ForceGeneral Laura Richardson, Commander, U.S. Southern Command, U.S. ArmyGeneral M. Erik Kurilla, Commander, U.S. Central Command, U.S. ArmyGeneral Christopher Cavoli, Commander, U.S. European Command, U.S. ArmyGeneral Michael Langley, Commander, U.S. Africa Command, U.S. Marine CorpsGeneral Bryan Fenton, Commander, U.S. Special Operations Command, U.S. ArmyGeneral Paul LaCamera, Commander, U.S. Forces Korea, U.S. ArmyCara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control, National Security CouncilJoseph Roman, Director for Defense Policy and Strategy, National Security Council



October 26, 202215:39

In-Town Pool Report #14: 2 minute warning for press briefing
2 minute warning called at 3:38pm



October 26, 202215:40

In-Town Pool Report #15: briefing begins
The press briefing began at 3:40pm
You can watch here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8bUzEAfVXJU&feature=youtu.be



October 26, 202216:58

In-Town Pool Report #16: briefing ends
The briefing ended at 4:55pm.



October 26, 202217:08

In-Town Pool Report #17: Lid
The WH called a travel-photo lid at 4:59pm.
The president has three virtual fundraisers on his schedule:
7:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Representative Matt Cartwright (PA-08)Virtual
8:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Representative Cynthia Axne (IA-03)Virtual
8:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Members of Congress in NevadaVirtual



October 26, 202220:13

In-Town Pool Report #18: Virtual Fundraiser for Rep. Matt Cartwright (PA-08)
The president appeared in an audio-only fundraiser via Zoom at 7:41pm for the virtual for Rep. Matt Cartwright, a Democrat who is running for re-election in Pennsylvania's 8th congressional district. He wrapped up his opening remarks at 7:53pm, and the full program ended at 8:03pm, with POTUS chiming in a few times to respond to comments from Cartwright . There were a few technical difficulties during the program, with audio hard to hear at time, so please check quotes against transcript.
POTUS
POTUS began by thanking Cartwright for representing the district, which includes Scranton. He said the district is "close to my heart."
"He is a man of incredible integrity." POTUS said of Cartwright. "He's strong, he's independent, and he's willing to work across the aisle to get things done."
"Just 13 days until one of the most important elections is in our lifetime, and that's not hyperbole-- because what happens in the next Congress in this off year is going to decide the direction of our country for our long time."
"I'm so sick and tired of trickle down economics," he said, calling out Republicans for embracing "Mega-MAGA trickle down economics."
POTUS ticked through a number of his administration's accomplishments, from 700,000 manufacturing jobs, a reduction in the federal deficit and lowering the costs of prescription drugs.
"But even with all this progress… people are still struggling with inflation." It's a global issue driven by a pandemic and Putin's war in Ukraine, he said.
POTUS touted the reduction in gas prices in recent months and once again predicted they would be further reduced.
"They're gonna go down further when the gas companies agree to my demand and our demand that they pass the savings on the price of a barrel of oil when that goes down… It should be reflected at the pump. But it's not these days. We're going to insist that they have a direct correlation."
Toward the end of the program, POTUS returned to the issue of energy companies' finances:
"Five major oil companies in the last quarter, do you know what they made in profit? $55 billion. Let me say that again. Five major oil companies in America made $55 billion in profit in the second quarter. Just one quarter. It's not fair, it's not fair."
He also attacked Republicans for their economic plans, reiterating a message that he has been making recently about how "Republicans are fiscally reckless" and want to blow up the deficit with tax cuts for the wealthy; and "they're coming after your Social Security and Medicare"; and they would be willing to shut down the government in order to achieve cuts to those entitlements.
Biden continued with a familiar refrain about how this election not a referendum, it's a choice and then criticized the "over 270 people running for state and local office on the Republican ticket" who refuse to acknowledge the legitimacy of the 2020 election. He said such candidates are MAGA Republicans.
Toward the end of his remarks, Biden launched a plea for supporters to donate to Cartwright's campaign.
"I say to all my friends from labor on this call… You're the ones that brung me to the dance. You're the ones who make this country what it is. And we need your help."
Quotes from others:
Rep. Cartwright mentioned that there were several members of labor unions on the call, and that they are excited by the Infrastructure Bill signed by
"It's true that people are hurting with the inflation right now. Thank God it's not as bad here as it is in the UK. But it's bad and people feel it." He said Democrats are working to address price gouging and bring down costs.
He also thanked POTUS for visiting Wilkes-Barre recently, and the support for community policing and public safety.
POTUS was scheduled to join two more virtual political receptions:
8:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Representative Cynthia Axne (IA-03)Virtual
8:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Members of Congress in NevadaVirtual



October 26, 202220:35

In-Town Pool Report #19: virtual political reception for Representative Cynthia Axne (IA-03)
POTUS began speaking at 8:12pm at a virtual political reception for Rep. Axne and finished his remarks at 8:27pm.
Please check quotes against transcript.
POTUS
POTUS opened by mentioning that he will be on Jay Leno's show today, driving a Corvette at 118 miles per hour on a Secret Service approved test track (the comment was in response to a comment by Rep. Axne about how he loves Corvettes)
"I still love old cars," he said.
He went on to repeat many of the same quotes from his speech at the previous political reception with Rep. Cartwright--familiar comments on his accomplishments, the threat of Republican's economic policies, and the contrast between his administration and his predecessor.
"Let's look at the facts--20 months ago, COVID ruled our lives," he said. And what happened was because the last administration didn't provide the vaccines and pay for them, we're in a situation where a million people died in America." Today, by contrast, "COVID no longer controls our life, although it's still important."
"Gas prices continue to fall. They're down nationwide $1.35 and they're still going down. Very soon, they're going to be what they were before, before the invasion."
He repeated the line about five major oil companies earning $55 billion in profit in the second quarter. This time, he said "It's outrageous" (at the previous reception, he said "it's not fair.")
He compared Republican tax policies to the policy of former UK Prime Minister Liz Truss. He said Republicans would like to extend the Trump tax cuts, which are slated to expire in 2024.
"You read about what happened in England recently, and the last Prime Minister, she wanted to cut taxes for the super wealthy--it caused economic chaos in the country. Well, that's what they did last time and they want to do it again. And they want to make that tax cut permanent—that $2 trillion."
"Cindy, the country needs you, and I'm not exaggerating. You're one of the best persons in the entire United States Congress. Thank you for all you've done."
Axne quotes
Speaking before POTUS, Axne opened her brief remarks with effusive praise for the president, calling him "the most impactful president we've seen in this country's history."
She credited Biden with "showing empathy and care for this country and getting shots in arms, putting our kids back in schools and keeping money in people's pockets so we can get back to an economy that works for this country."
Biden has one final event scheduled:
8:30 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a virtual political reception for Members of Congress in NevadaVirtual



October 26, 202221:02

In-Town Pool Report #20: Virtual political reception for Members of Congress in Nevada
POTUS began speaking at 8:40pm at a virtual political reception for Nevada's three Democratic House members, Reps. Dina Titus (NV-01), Susie Lee (NV-03) and Steven Horsford (NV-04). His remarks ended at 8:51pm.
Please check quotes against the transcript.
POTUS:
The president repeated much of the same speech and many of the same statistics from the previous two receptions, familiar lines contrasting his accomplishments with the Republican agenda on the economy.
"Everybody knows what we've done--the infrastructure bill, Inflation Reduction Act, dealing with environment etc. But what are Republicans for?"
He said Republicans largely want to roll back many of his accomplishments, from reducing the cost of drugs to cutting the deficit to bolstering the Affordable Care Act.
He ended by imploring those on the call to get out to vote and continue to donate, and he briefly encouraged them to re-elect Sen. Cathy Cortez Masto.
"Look, folks… get your family out to vote, get everybody out to vote. And every dollar you can contribute will make a gigantic difference because the other team is putting in millions of bucks to try to defeat these three candidates. They're the best around. And by the way, while you're doing this, re-elect your senator. She's first-rate. Thanks."
The president's remarks at the three political receptions this evening were largely focused on the economy and inflation. As he contrasted his vision with that of Republicans, he did not mention abortion, student loans, gun safety, crime, voting rights, etc. At the first reception, he briefly mentioned election denialism and threats to democracy.
Others:
Rep. Nina Titus (D-Nev.) began the call introducing the president with much praise:
"I endorsed Joe Biden early in this presidential race, because I knew that he was man for the job at this time. He had the breadth of knowledge, the strength of conviction, and the depth of experience to bring our country back together, restore our economy and protect our democracy. And indeed, he has shown that he can do that."
She said scholars have highlighted that President Biden has accomplished as much as any president since LBJ.
"And remember, Lyndon Johnson had big majorities in both houses. And our President Biden is doing it with the slimmest of numbers in the House and in the Senate."




 
Pool Reports below by Nadia Bilbassy-Charters, Al-Arabiya 



Sent:
Reports:




October 26, 202213:28

Foreign pool report #1 POTUS and Israeli President Isaac Herzog
Pool was ushered into the oval office at 12:52. Both Presidents were seated.
President Herzog spoke in English. Here are the main points:
He said today Marks the 40th day of the killing of Mahsa Amini, the Iranian regime is crushing thousands of Iranian citizens ,who are claiming their own liberty.
He added that "This is an example of Iran crushing their own citizens while moving forward towards nuclear weapons and supplying lethal weapons that is killing innocent citizens in Ukraine. The Iranian challenge will be a major challenge to be discussed."
He thanks the President on compeleting the maritime deal bewteen Lebanon and Israel and for the signing that will take place tomorrow.
He also said that he will discuss Israel integration into the region, he sited COP 27 in Sharm al Sheikh in Egypt later on as an example of cooperation with regional partners on climate change.
He mentioned the election in Israel and the Midterms in the US indicating that no matter of the results, Israel and the US will always have a strong relation.
President Isaac Herzog visit came after an invitation from President Biden when he last visited Israel in July.
Before departing Israel, Herzog made a statement via a video in which he said he will discuss the threat Iran posed to Israel and the region, and the world. Middle East peace, expanding the Abraham accord and the new maritime border dispute between Lebanon and Israel.
The President job is ceremonial per the Israeli system, governing is left to the Prime minister and the Knesset.
Herzog began a two-day visit to Washington starting Tuesday, he met with speaker Nancy Pelosi and with Secretary of State Antony Blinken, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and the President Envoy on Energy Amos Hochstein and leaders of 40 Jewish organizations.
He was invited officially to address the joint session of congress. no date has been announced yet , it will coincide with 75th anniversary of Israel establishment.
here is the letter: HTTPs://www.speaker.gov/sites/speaker.house.gov/files/10.25.2022%20-%20Letter%20to%20President%20Herzog.pdf
He will depart Washington tonight. No questions were taken.



October 26, 202214:33

Foreign pool #2 President Herzong stakeout
President Herzog briefed the press at the Stake out position at 2:09 pm. He spoke in Hebrew for the benefit of the Israeli press and in English as well. He reiterated what he said at the Oval, almost the same points .
1 Iran crushing its own citizens, supplying Russia with lethal weapons that killed Ukrainians, and going forward with the nuclear program.
2 Integration in the region, expanding the Abraham Accord , mentioning COP 27 in Egypt.
3 Signing the maritime border between Israel and Lebanon
4 Election in Israel and US and depth of the relations with the US.
He answered one question in Hebrew, I assume it was about Iran, and one in English indication the issue of antisemitism and how to combat it as one additional topic that was discussed..
Briefing is now pushed till after the meeting with DOD leaders at the State Dining room.




  