
    Pool Reports by Brett Samuels, The Hill



Sent:
Reports:




 October 15, 2020 09:43

 In-town pool report #1: Good morning and POTUS on Fox Business 
?Good morning from the White House. It's a lovely, sunny morning here. President Trump is scheduled to depart at roughly 11:35 today for a rally in North Carolina, followed by a fundraiser and town hall in Florida.
In-town pool and out-of-town pool were tested for COVID-19 this morning. Things are otherwise quiet, though President Trump has been tweeting for several hours now and will be on Fox Business Network at 10 a.m.
Let me know if any questions, and I will update if there are any other developments. 


 October 15, 2020 11:30

 In-town pool report #2: Gathered for departure 
Pool is gathered by the residence awaiting President Trump's departure from the South Lawn. A group of a few dozen supporters holding mini American flags are gathered behind the rope line just across the driveway. Most, if not all, are wearing masks. Photo attached. 


 October 15, 2020 12:18

 In-town pool report #3: POTUS speaks and departs w/Hope Hicks 
President Trump emerged from the White House at 12:11 and briefly came over to speak to reporters. He previewed his trip for the next two days and insisted that polls were looking good for him.
He took one question on a recent WTO ruling about the EU.
He was followed to Marine One by Mark Meadows, Dan Scavino and Hope Hicks.
Marine One is lifting off at 12:17. Handing off to in-town pool, full quotes coming soon. 


 October 15, 2020 12:34

 In-town pool report #4: Fuller quotes 
Full quotes from President Trump upon leaving the White House. Note Meadows and Scavino were not wearing masks. Hicks did not appear to be wearing a mask either.
As always, check quotes against video: https://www.c-span.org/video/?477010-1/president-trump-departs-white-house
POTUS: "We're going to North Carolina. We have a tremendous crowd of people. We're going to be there in a little while and then we're going to Florida, we're going to Miami. And I think we're staying overnight in Miami. And we're doing very well. The polls are looking, actually great, we're doing very well. We're going to have a big victory. And I look forward to it. Some of you are traveling with us, I guess, and some of you aren't."
Q: The WTO has given the EU a green light to put tariffs in the Boeing case. Will you strike back? (Note: POTUS appeared to have difficulty hearing the question)
A: "We won a $7.5 billion case. And that was a great case to win, as you know. And we'll see what happens. If they strike back then we'll strike much harder than they strike. They don't want to do anything, I can tell you that."
(For context, the question was related to this ruling: https://www.wsj.com/articles/boeing-subsidies-merit-eu-tariffs-on-4-bill...




Pool Reports below by Rob Crilly, Washington Examiner



Sent:
Reports:




 October 15, 2020 12:33

 Travel pool report #1: JBA 
Good afternoon from Joint Base Andrews where Marine One touched down at 12:26.
POTUS emerged a minute or two later after speaking to pilots. He walked to AF1 waved to pool and boarded. He is not wearing a mask.
Also seen arriving: Mark Meadows, Dan Scavino, Hope Hicks, Derek Lyons, JohnMcEntee. Meadows could be seen removing mask as he left Marine One. Others not wearing masks.
Ronna McDaniel spotted on board AF1 earlier.
We are departing on a two-day trip, with a rally in Greenville, NC, a fundraiser at Trump National Doral, FL, followed by the NBC News town hall this evening.
We are on the small Air Force One (with the connectivity issues that come with that), tail number 90015. 


 October 15, 2020 13:31

 Travel pool report #2: Greenville airport 
?Air Force One was wheels down 13:21.
Pool taken straight to event without seeing POTUS deplane.
Macho Man playing. Pitt-Geenville airport is set up for rally with crowd standing shoulder to shoulder. Not many masks in evidence.
As ever please follow live stream for quotes. 


 October 15, 2020 13:52

 Travel pool report #3: POTUS speech 
?God Bless the USA started up at 13:34 and POTUS began speaking at 13:36.
He is flanked by giant banners reading "Make America Great Again" and Air Force One forms a backdrop.
A few quotes so far, please check against video"This election is a simple choice. If Biden wins China wins"
Biden betrayed workers of NC
Endless foreign wars -- "they're all coming back, our great soldiers"
"Yesterday we learned form newly released emails, and I want to thank the NY Post ... that Joe Biden has been blatantly lying about his involvement in his son's corrupt business dealings."
Says new story saying Hunter made deal with Chinese businessman for $1m a year "for introductions only"
Fake news - boos in pool direction
Crowd erupted in chants of "four more years at one point"
"The Bidens got rich while America got robbed."
Riffs on laptop being handed in to repair shop and forgotten, before pivotting to attack social media giants
"If big tech persists in coordination with the mainstream media we must immediately strip them of their 230 protection."
"If I don't sound like a typical Washington politician it's because I'm not a politician."
Talks about good governors who worked with him on coronavirus"One day I'll write a little book and I'll tell you who the good ones were."
Briefly mentioned his son's COVID-19 diagnosis"My Barron. My tall Barron. My beautiful Barron. He had it." 


 October 15, 2020 14:22

 Travel pool report #4a: Missing report - Harris campaign quote 
Hi,
Report #4 seems to have disappeared and may or may not have sent. Apologies.
Just to recap it noted POTUS extending "best wishes" to Kamala Harris's campaign after two positive COVID tests.
"We extend our best wishes, which is more than they did to me, but that's OK,"
Weather here is an overcast 80F
POTUS still speaking after 42 minutes. 


 October 15, 2020 14:57

 Travel pool report #5: POTUS wrapping up 
POTUS wraps up at 14:56 after speaking for 79 minutes. Cue the Village People.
We will be en route to Miami Airport shortly.
Difficult to estimate crowd size. But certainly into the thousands - maybe 2000. Seats arranged 15-deep in a U-shape (about 50 to a row) around the podium. With more banks of seating set up behind POTUS.Behind the seats several hundred more are standing. No social distancing on display.
MORE ON COVID"It's going to peter out and it's going to end. But we're going to help the end."
Introduced Ronna McDaniel to the crowd, first appearance (please do check?) since being diagnosed with COVID-19.Jokes about people moving away from her"Look they're all jumping. 'Oh, she just recovered. Let's get the hell out of here.'"
"She just fully recovered. A lot of people are recording 99 percent 99 plus plus.
"One thing I do say is get to the hospital early. Get there early. They can do things." 


 October 15, 2020 15:00

 Travel pool report #6: 
POTUS walked offstage clapping to YMCA. He gave pool a quick thumbs up and boarded directly, pausing to wave from top of steps at 14:59.
We also spotted Alyssa Farah travelling too.
Wheels up imminently 


 October 15, 2020 16:57

 Travel pool report #7: Miami 
?Air Force One wheels down at Miami International Airport at 16:44.
A few dozen supporters turned out to cheer POTUS as he emerged from the plane. POTUS gave them a first pump as he descended steps.
>From the WH —
The President is met by:
Mayor Carlos GimenezMayor of Miami-Dade County, Florida
Jorge MasvidalSupporter
(AND UFC fighter)
Mark Meadows paid a brief visit to the rear cabin to say hello during otherwise uneventful flight.
Motorcade now rolling for Doral at 16:55. 


 October 15, 2020 17:15

 Travel pool report #8: Doral 
?Motorcade pulled into Trump National Doral at 17:05 after short hop from airport.
Pool is being taken to a conference room to hold. We passed the VP's motorcade in parking lot, and I believe he announced at earlier roundtable that he would be at this fundraiser.
Have asked campaign for more details of fundraising event. 


 October 15, 2020 19:23

 Travel pool report #9: Motorcade 
Motorcade rolling from the Trump National Doral at 19.22. Pool did not see POTUS join motorcade.
Headed for the Pérez Art Museum and tonight's town hall.
Campaign has not yet offered any further info on the fundraising event.But here is some background: 


 October 15, 2020 19:50

 Travel pool report #10: Art Museum 
?Motorcade peeled into underground car park at the Pérez Art Museum Miami at 19:46.
Pool did not see POTUS exit vehicle or enter venue.
We are being led through parking lot to take up seats in audience. 


 October 15, 2020 20:01

 Travel pool report #11: Scene and POTUS 
Pool has taken up position about 20 yard from the central, circular stage.
POTUS appears to smattering of applause at 20:00.
We are on an outdoor terrace, covered with a high roof, from which a lighting gantry hangs in the center. It displays the NBC logo. There are also cylindrical structures hanging from the ceiling festooned with green plants. The floor is decorated with giant white stars.
There is an audience of about 30 on our side of the terrace, all socially distanced on tall chairs. About another 18 or so are on the far side. Everyone is in officewear and masked.
Jorge Masvidal is present in a light grey waistcoat and trousers, his matching jacket resting on his knees.
Also visible on the far side: Tiffany Trump in pink and Kimberly Guilfoyle.
We will endeavour to bring you additional colour but please do follow along on TV for quotes etc. 


 October 15, 2020 20:09

 Travel pool report #11a: View from pool seats 
Image attached.
Looking past the stage we can see boats in a marina in the middle distance. 


 October 15, 2020 20:31

 Travel pool report #12: Break 
?On about 13 min, when Trump says he has repeatedly denounced white supremacy but pivots to denouncing Antifa there is a smattering of applause - including from Jorge Masvidal.
It's a sticky, warm night (app says it is 82F, which seems a touch high) with the odd breeze wafting across the terrace.
During the break Alyssa Farah came out to speak to Savannah Guthrie, and then walked over to join three other aides clustered around POTUS for a couple of minutes.
Also spotted around are David Bossie and Mark Meadows. 


 October 15, 2020 20:46

 Travel pool report #13: Second break and storm 
?There are some flashes of light in the far distance over the water. Could be lightning. Closer in a police boat is patrolling the water beyond the end of the terrace.
Can now see rain illuminated by the lights just beyond the terrace and more flashes getting closer and more frequent.
Rain no longer visible as second break arrives.
Again POTUS confers with a couple of aides - including Farah - like a prize fighter with his seconds. This time he also stands up and acknowledges the small audience behind him, some of whom whoop and cheer. Someone calls out "Latinos for Trump." 


 October 15, 2020 21:16

 Travel pool report #14: Town hall ends 
?Town hall ended at 21:00. POTUS stood and was quickly surrounded by audience for photos.
Pool hustled out to vans with POTUS still there.
Motorcade now rolling at 21:14. 


 October 15, 2020 21:39

 Travel Pool Report #15: Trump National Doral and lid 
?Motorcade pulled into gates of the Trump National Doral at 21:33.
Travel/photo lid called three minutes later.
And that concludes tonight's service. Thanks to co-pooler Gabby Orr for multiple assists and see you all in morning for day two. 



  