
    
  Experienced State Leaders to Head Organization

McLean, VA - The Fred Thompson campaign announced today that two prominent statewide Texas office-holders will join the campaign. Attorney General Greg Abbott and Texas Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson will serve as co-chairs of the Fred Thompson campaign in Texas.
Attorney General Greg Abbott was re-elected as the 50th Attorney General of Texas on November 7, 2006. Prior to his election as Attorney General, he served as a Justice on the Texas Supreme Court and as a State District Judge in Harris County. In 1995, then-Governor George W. Bush appointed General Abbott to the Texas Supreme Court, where he served with distinction. Twice re-elected to the Texas Supreme Court, General Abbott earned numerous awards, including "Jurist of the Year" from the Texas Review of Law & Politics.
"A tough former prosecutor and proven conservative, Fred Thompson is the Republican to keep Hillary Rodham Clinton out of the White House," said Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott. "Senator Thompson's national security experience, his successful crackdown on wasteful government spending, and his well-honed communications skills leave him uniquely positioned to lead our nation."
In 2002, Jerry Patterson was elected to become the 27th Commissioner of the General Land Office. Commissioner Patterson served his country as a U.S. Marine for over twenty years and as a state senator for six. As senator from District 11, Patterson's major legislative successes included passage of the historic concealed handgun law, the state coastal management plan and the creation of the Texas State Veterans Home Program.
"Senator Thompson recognizes the guarantees enumerated in the Bill of Rights come from our creator not from our government, and that the 2nd Amendment guarantees an individual right to keep and bear arms," said Commissioner Patterson. "For these and many more reasons, I am proud to support Fred Thompson for President."
"Attorney General Abbott and Commissioner Patterson add great strength to our growing Texas organization," said Randy Enwright, National Political Director. "Their experienced leadership in Texas will be instrumental in helping Fred Thompson lead a successful campaign in the state."
Texas Railroad Commissioner Victor Carrillo, another popular statewide official, will also play a prominent leadership role in the Thompson campaign's national organization.
  