
    Pool Reports by John Fritze, USA Today



Sent:
Reports:




 October 14, 2020 16:34

 Out of town pool report #1 
?Good afternoon from Joint Base Andrews, where Marine One landed at 4:24 pm on this sunny fall day. President Trump emerged from the helicopter a few minutes later and boarded Air Force One at 4:29 pm after a thumbs up and a wave but no words for the pool. Among the staff seen boarding behind the president were Scavino and Meadows, neither of whom were wearing a mask.
And with that, the president is on his way for tonight's rally in Des Moines, his third such event in as many days. Air Force One is rolling at 4:34 pm. 


 October 14, 2020 19:29

 Out of town pool report #2 
?Air Force One touched down at Des Moines International at 6:07 pm CDT after a 148-minute trip. Mark Meadows, wearing a black mask, came back to the press cabin for a few minutes shortly after takeoff to exchange pleasantries and to note that the president's schedule from now until the election would be "very robust."
Large crowd gathered on the tarmac, with a massive American flag hanging from a crane and "Gloria" blaring from the speakers as pool positioned for the remarks prior to the president stepping off the plane. Some masks in the crowd but most supporters are without face coverings. It's breezy and cloudy but not too bad for mid October.
Will send another report when the president deplanes. 


 October 14, 2020 19:34

 Out of town pool report #3 
?President Trump emerged from Air Force One at 630 pm and gave a wave from the top of the steps as the sound crew switched to "God Bless the USA." He began his remarks at 6:33 pm. 


 October 14, 2020 20:09

 Out of town travel pool #4 
?President Trump began his remarks in Des Moines with an extended discussion of the New York Post report, which he described as a "smoking gun" before accusing Biden of being a "corrupt politician."
The wind picked up as Trump spoke, drawing a comment from the president about 20 minutes into his remarks. "It's windy out here," Trump said, then added: "If you can wear the hat I can wear the hat." He donned a red MAGA cap and then asked the crowd if he should ditch his tie, which he proceeded to do — removing his red tie and throwing it off stage. "Oh, that feels so much better," he said to cheers.
Trump discussed Judge Barrett briefly, calling her a "great intellect" and proclaiming that "we made the right choice." Discussing the news of Barron Trump's previous positive COVID test, the president said that "Barron is beautiful and he's free" and said that, "I don't even think he knew he had it."
Trump brought wrestling legend Dan Gable up on stage and reiterated the news today that he would award him the Presidential Medal of Freedom "very shortly." Gable predicted Trump would be a "multi-champion" to chants of "four more years."
The president began his remarks at 633 pm and wrapped up at 800 sharp.
Trump boarded AF1 after some clapping and a wave from the top of the steps at 804 pm, still wearing his cap.
And at 8:09 pm, AF1 is rolling. 


 October 14, 2020 23:11

 Out of town pool report #5 
?Air Force One was wheels up from Des Moines at 9:15 p.m. EDT and touched down at Joint Base Andrews at 10:54 p.m. EDT.
About 15 minutes into the flight, President Trump, sans mask, made an off the record visit to the press cabin for about 10 minutes.
The president stepped off AF1 and gave a wave to the pool gathered under the wing. He then boarded Marine One, which was wheels up and on the way back to the White House at 11:11 pm. 



  