
    Endorsements Announced Ahead of Trump's Visit To Minneapolis
MINNEAPOLIS, MN — Today, Amy for America announced that more than 70 state and local officials from every corner of Minnesota have endorsed U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for President, citing her work and effectiveness in representing millions of Minnesotans in the U.S. Senate.
Leaders from Minnesota know Klobuchar's record of fighting for Minnesotans and her ability to get things done make her the right candidate to beat Donald Trump and move our country forward.
Tim Walz — Governor of Minnesota
"I endorsed Amy Klobuchar for President because we need to put a leader in the White House who can get things done. As President Trump continues to sow discord across the country, we must remember that Amy Klobuchar is a proven leader who has fought for Minnesotans from every corner of the state, and as President, she'll fight for Americans across the country. We all know that we need to win the election in 2020 with a bold, positive vision."
Peggy Flanagan — Lieutenant Governor of Minnesota
"I support Senator Amy Klobuchar for President because Amy knows how to bring people together and get things done. Amy has been a role model in our state for finding common ground so that we can rise up and find a higher purpose in our politics. In a time of great division in our country, Amy brings civility, decency, and honesty to the work."
Jacob Frey — Mayor, Minneapolis
"Amy Klobuchar's message of unity and efficacy are exactly what we need to defeat Donald Trump in 2020. In a time of so much division and hateful rhetoric, Minnesotans can always count on Amy to bring people together."
Tom Bakk — Minnesota Senate Minority Leader
"As a retired union Carpenter I am endorsing Amy because she has fought for working women and men who carry a lunch bucket to work every day, and as the DFL Leader in the State Senate, Amy's top of the ticket vote getting ability has helped us keep and pick up a majority when she's led the top of the ticket."
Melissa Hortman - Speaker of the Minnesota House of Representatives
"The people of this country deserve the kind of leadership we've seen from Senator Amy Klobuchar in Minnesota. Everyone who knows Amy knows she is a hard worker and has proven herself to be an incredibly effective legislator. I know she will continue working tirelessly for the people across the country as she has done for the people of our state."
Melisa Franzen — Minnesota State Senator
"When tough issues come up, whether it is immigration or something impacting my district, I haven't had to reach out to Amy, she's called me first to see how she can help. It's that kind of hard-working, compassionate, effective approach our nation desperately needs. When elected, Amy will be someone focused on the job and on us, not on distractions."
Klobuchar has earned the endorsements of:
Walter Mondale — Former Vice PresidentTim Walz — GovernorTina Smith — U.S. SenatorPeggy Flanagan — Lieutenant GovernorJulie Blaha — State AuditorMelanie Benjamin — Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe Chief ExecutiveCharlie Vig -- Shakopee Mdewakanton Sioux Community ChairmanAngie Craig — U.S. Representative, 2nd DistrictDean Phillips — U.S. Representative, 3rd DistrictBetty McCollum — U.S. Representative, 4th DistrictCollin Peterson — U.S. Representative, 7th DistrictJacob Frey — Mayor, MinneapolisEmily Larson — Mayor, DuluthJonathan Judd — Mayor, MoorheadNajwa Massad — Mayor, MankatoSiad Ali — Minneapolis School BoardNoah Hobbs — Duluth City CouncilZack Filipovich — Duluth City CouncilArik Forsman — Duluth City Council
Minnesota State Senators• Tom Bakk — Senate Minority Leader• Karla Bigham• Greg Clausen• Dick Cohen• Steve Cwodzinski• Kari Dziedzic• Chris Eaton• Kent Eken• Melisa Franzen• Nick Frentz• Melissa Halvorson Wiklund• Foung Hawj• John Hoffman• Jason Isaacson• Susan Kent• Matt Klein• Ron Latz• Matt Little• Jerry Newton• Sandy Pappas• Ann Rest• Dan Sparks• Patricia Torres Ray• Chuck Wiger
Minnesota State Representatives• Melissa Hortman — Speaker of the House• Ryan Winkler — House Majority Leader• Patty Acomb• Kristin Bahner• Connie Bernardy• Robert Bierman• Jeff Brand• Jack Considine• Heather Edelson• Steve Elkins• Peter Fischer• Mike Freiberg• Laurie Halverson• Frank Hornstein• John Huot• Ginny Klevorn• Ben Lien• Alice Mann• Sandra Masin• Kelly Moller• Kelly Morrison• Michael Nelson• Mohamud Noor• John Persell• Laurie Pryor• Duane Sauke• Jennifer Schultz• Zack Stephenson• Brad Tabke• Dan Wolgamott• Cheryl Youakim
  