
    1. Leaders unequivocally condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attacks in the United States on September 11, 2001, and express their deepest sympathy and condolences to the victims of a large number of nationalities and their families and to the people and Government of the United States of America.
2. Leaders consider the murderous deeds as well as other terrorist acts in all forms and manifestations, committed wherever, whenever and by whomsoever as a profound threat to the peace, prosperity and security of all people, of all faiths, of all nations. Terrorism is also a direct challenge to APEC's vision of free, open and prosperous economies, and to the fundamental values that APEC members hold.
3. Leaders reaffirm that it is more important than ever for every economy to forge ahead in its commitment in achieving Bogor's goal of free, open trade and investment.
4. Leaders deem it imperative to strengthen international cooperation at all levels in combating terrorism in a comprehensive manner and affirm that UN should play a major role in this regard, especially taking into account the importance of all relevant UN resolutions.
5. Leaders commit to prevent and suppress all forms of terrorist acts in the future in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and other international law, pledge to implement the UN Security Council Resolution 1368 and 1373 faithfully and immediately, strongly support all efforts to strengthen the international anti-terrorism regime, call for increased cooperation to bring perpetrators to justice, and also call for early signing and ratification of all basic universal anti-terrorist conventions including the International Convention for the Suppression of the Financing of Terrorism.
6. Leaders are determined to enhance counter-terrorism cooperation in line with specific circumstances in their respective economies, through:

Appropriate financial measures to prevent the flow of funds to terrorists, including accelerating work on combating financial crimes through APEC Finance Ministers' working Group on Fighting Financial Crime and increasing involvement in related international standard-setting bodies;
Adherence by all economies to relevant international requirements for the security of air and maritime transportation. Leaders call on Transport Ministers to actively take part in the discussions on enhancing airport, aircraft, and port security, achieve effective outcomes as early as possible, and assure full implementation and cooperation in this regard;
Strengthening of energy security in the region through the mechanism of the APEC Energy Security Initiative, which examines measures to respond to temporary supply disruptions and longer-term challenges facing the region's energy supply;
Strengthening of APEC activities in the area of critical sector protection, including telecommunications, transportation, health and energy.
Enhancement of customs communication networks and expeditious development of a global integrated electronic customs network, which would allow customs authorities to better enforce laws while minimizing the impact on the flow of trade.
Cooperation to develop electronic movement records systems that will enhance border security while ensuring movement of legitimate travelers is not disrupted.
Strengthening capacity building and economic and technical cooperation to enable member economies to put into place and enforce effective counterterrorism measures.
Cooperation to limit the economic fallout from the attacks and move to restore economic confidence in the region through policies and measures to increase economic growth as well as ensure stable environment for trade, investment, travel and tourism.

7. Leaders also pledge to cooperate fully to ensure that international terrorism does not disrupt economies and markets, through close communication and cooperation among economic policy and financial authorities.
  