
    
Fresh off a new fundraising report that detailed Marco's strong cash-on-hand and fiscal responsibility, leading Republicans in New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin and Illinois announced their support for Marco this week.
In New Hampshire, WMUR reports that top GOP activist Chris Wolfe endorsed Marco. One of New Hampshire's most sought-after Republican activists has signed on with U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio's presidential campaign, WMUR.com has learned. Chris Wolfe of Derry, a former co-chairman of Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker's campaign, has joined the Florida senator's campaign in the same capacity — as a state co-chair. Since Walker's departure from the race,
Wolfe has been one of the most highly sought-after activists in the first-primary state, reportedly taking calls from former Florida Gov. Jeb Bush and U.S. Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, among others. Wolfe said in a statement: "I'm proud to endorse Marco Rubio and support his campaign to become our next president. I've had the privilege of meeting and speaking with many of our candidates, but after carefully reviewing the field, Marco Rubio clearly stands apart.
.@WMUR9_Politics 1ST: Top NH GOP activist Chris Wolfe endorses @marcorubio for president #fitn #nhpolitics #WMUR http://t.co/sO08JtryYa
— John DiStaso (@jdistaso) October 15, 2015

The Pittsburgh Tribune reports that Pennsylvania House Speaker Mike Turzai has endorsed Marco. Pennsylvania House Speaker Mike Turzai endorsed U.S. Sen. Marco Rubio for president on Friday during a Republican House leadership fundraiser in Pittsburgh. Rubio was keynote speaker for the event that raises money to help elect Republicans to the state House. "We speakers have a special bond," said Turzai, R-Marshall. Rubio was the youngest House speaker ever when he served in Florida's legislature.
Powerful Pennsylvania House Speaker Turzai endorses @marcorubio at largest GOP fundraiser event ever in #Pittsburgh pic.twitter.com/kWKHzJEmMK — SalenaZito (@SalenaZitoTrib) October 16, 2015

In Wisconsin, the Associated Press reports that Assembly Speaker Robin Vos and at least 19 other GOP lawmakers are endorsing Marco. Wisconsin state Assembly Speaker Robin Vos and 19 other Republican state lawmakers are endorsing Florida Sen. Marco Rubio for president. … Vos says in a statement that Rubio "has the right conservative vision for our country" and "celebrates what is great about America's past, but provides a new generation's leadership."

In Illinois, the Quad Cities Times reports that Darin LaHood has endorsed Marco. Newly elected U.S. Rep. Darin LaHood, R-Ill., is endorsing Marco Rubio for president. LaHood, a Peoria Republican, said in a statement Wednesday that Rubio represents the "best and brightest of what America has to offer." … "Marco is a transformational leader with a bold vision for a New American Century and I look forward to serving as Co-Chair of his Illinois Presidential campaign. Marco's uplifting plan to create good paying 21st century jobs will ensure more people will be able to achieve the American Dream," LaHood said in the statement.
  