
    The ad will air in all four early primary and caucus states

Click the image above to watch the ad
(SAN FRANCISCO, October 9, 2019) — Presidential candidate for the Democratic nomination Tom Steyer rolled out a new ad campaign today showing that his actions match his words when it comes to breaking the corporate stranglehold on our democracy and giving real economic power to the American people. The ad is part of Steyer's People Over Profits Economic Agenda announced this week. The agenda is founded on three core principles: breaking the corporate stranglehold on our government, investing in the American people, and harnessing innovation and competition.
The 30-second "Real Economic Power" ad shows the non-profit community bank he and his wife, Kat Taylor, founded in Oakland, California in response to unjust corporate banking practices. As president, Steyer will continue to prioritize people before profits, and create millions of jobs for working-class Americans. The ad will air locally in all four early primary and caucus states of Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, and South Carolina.
"Wall Street Banks took advantage of millions of Americans during the recession. So, my wife Kat and I took action," Steyer said in the ad. "We started a non-profit community bank with a simple theory – give people a fair deal and real economic power. Invest in the community. In businesses owned by women and people of color. In affordable housing. The difference between words and actions matters. That's a lesson politicians in Washington could use right now."
See below for full script:
Wall Street Banks took advantage of millions of Americans during the recession.
So, my wife Kat and I took action. We started a non-profit community bank with a simple theory – give people a fair deal and real economic power.
Invest in the community.
In businesses owned by women and people of color.
In affordable housing.
The difference between words and actions matters. That's a lesson politicians in Washington could use right now.
I'm Tom Steyer, and I approve this message.
  