
    Excerpts From: "Prominent conservative says Thompson acceptable"
By Andy Sher
October 11, 2007
A prominent social conservative said Wednesday he finds Republican presidential hopeful Fred Thompson acceptable as a party nominee but warned many Christian voters would desert the Republican ticket if Rudy Giuliani is the 2008 nominee.
Family Research Council President Tony Perkins said that, in his view, former U.S. Sen. Thompson "has a record that shows he is conservative socially. I think he has a record that shows he is a fiscal conservative as well as being strong in the area of foreign policy and national defense."
He said former New York City Mayor Giuliani is the only candidate running among the Republicans "who has stated a pro-abortion-rights position."
"I think it would be very problematic to put forth a candidate that's broken with 30 years of Republican history," he said.
...
Mr. Thompson has said he opposes gay marriages, but he has stopped short of supporting a constitutional ban. Instead, he has said he would back a federalist approach in the form of a constitutional amendment that would let a state refuse to recognize same-sex marriage ceremonies performed in other states.
Thompson spokesman Jeff Sadosky said in an e-mail that Mr. Thompson, who served as senator from 1994 to early 2003, "has a 100 percent pro-life voting record and on issues such as life and marriage, he believes strongly in returning authority to the levels of government closest to families and communities and protecting states from further intrusion by the federal government and activist judges."
Mr. Perkins said the Thompson proposal would stop "judges from redefining marriage or one state imposing same-sex marriage on another state."
...
He said Mr. Thompson remains a viable candidate "because he has been very clear in stating that he sees marriage as between a man and a woman."
...
[Thompson spokesman] Mr. Sadosky...said Mr. Thompson is "very pleased and humbled by the kind words offered by conservative leaders who know him, such as Dr. Richard Land and Gary Bauer, for his conservative principles and the affirmations of his faith."
To View The Entire Article, Please Visit :
http://www.timesfreepress.com/absolutenm/templates/local.aspx?articleid=23056&zoneid=77
  