
    Since Taking Office, President Obama Has Repeatedly Apologized For America's Leadership Throughout The World
Upon Taking Office, President Obama Apologized For America's History Of Foreign Policy Leadership Throughout The World:
In France, President Obama Apologized To Europe For American "Arrogance." OBAMA: "Instead of celebrating your dynamic union and seeking to partner with you to meet common challenges, there have been times where America has shown arrogance and been dismissive, even derisive." (President Barack Obama,  Remarks, Strasbourg, France, 4/3/09)
In Prague, President Obama Said That The U.S. Had "A Moral Responsibility" To Prevent Nuclear Proliferation Because We Were The Only Nation That Had Used Nuclear Weapons. OBAMA: "Just as we stood for freedom in the 20th century, we must stand together for the right of people everywhere to live free from fear in the 21st century. And as nuclear power —- as a nuclear power, as the only nuclear power to have used a nuclear weapon, the United States has a moral responsibility to act. We cannot succeed in this endeavor alone, but we can lead it, we can start it." (President Barack Obama,  Remarks, Prague, Czech Republic, 4/5/09)
In Egypt, President Obama Apologized For Actions "Contrary To Our Traditions And Our Ideals" After September 11th. OBAMA: "Nine-eleven was an enormous trauma to our country. The fear and anger that it provoked was understandable, but in some cases, it led us to act contrary to our traditions and our ideals. We are taking concrete actions to change course." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Cairo, Egypt, 6/4/09)
In An Interview With Al Arabiya, President Obama Said The U.S. Has Made "Mistakes" And "We Have Not Been Perfect." OBAMA: "My job to the Muslim world is to communicate that the Americans are not your enemy. We sometimes make mistakes. We have not been perfect. But if you look at the track record, as you say, America was not born as a colonial power, and that the same respect and partnership that America had with the Muslim world as recently as 20 or 30 years ago, there's no reason why we can't restore that." ("Obama Tells Al Arabiya Peace Talks Should Resume," Al Arabiya, 1/27/09)


    President Obama: "All Too Often The United States Starts By Dictating..." OBAMA: "And so what I told him is start by listening, because all too often the United States starts by dictating — in the past on some of these issues — and we don't always know all the factors that are involved." ("Obama Tells Al Arabiya Peace Talks Should Resume," Al Arabiya, 1/27/09)
  

President Obama Apologized To Latin America For The U.S. Being "Disengaged" From The Region, And Seeking To "Dictate Our Terms." OBAMA: "While the United States has done much to promote peace and prosperity in the hemisphere, we have at times been disengaged, and at times we sought to dictate our terms." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, 4/17/09) 
And Vice President Biden Has Even Blamed The United States For Iran's Progress Toward A Nuclear Weapon:
Vice President Joe Biden, On U.S. Policy Toward Iran Before President Obama Took Office: "We Were The Problem; We Were Diplomatically Isolated In The World..." BIDEN: "When we took office, let me remind you, there was virtually no international pressure on Iran. We were the problem; we were diplomatically isolated in the world, in the region, in Europe." (Vice President Joe Biden, Remarks, Atlanta, GA, 5/8/12)

Click To Watch

  