
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Each year, fire strikes one out of ten homes in our country. Our Nation leads the world in technological achievements but, unfortunately, it also leads the world in per capita fire losses. Every hour one person dies, and every month $2 billion is lost as a result of fire. Between 2 percent and 3 percent of our gross national product is consumed in fires annually.
It is encouraging to note that, due to the increase in public fire education efforts and use of smoke detectors, there has been a leveling off of fire deaths in recent years. Many homes, however, are still without these safety devices, and I urge community leaders to encourage their use and emphasize the need to keep them in good working order.
Removing the threat of fire from our families and businesses is a national priority. New initiatives are needed to educate the public concerning fire safety and to advise them how they may prevent or survive fire situations. More and more private sector and volunteer organizations are joining the efforts to reduce the Nation's fire loss and this is commendable.
Special recognition is due the efforts of over a million men and women, both volunteer and career, of our Nation's fire services who daily risk their lives to protect others. It is appropriate that we take time to thank them for their unselfish dedication to the principle of helping others in desperate need. Americans should also appreciate the work of all organizations concerned with fire prevention and control efforts—in particular those which are members of the Joint Council of National Fire Service Organizations.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week of October 7 through 13, 1984, as Fire Prevention Week. I call upon the people of the United States and interested groups, volunteer organizations, businesses, and governmental organizations to plan and to participate in fire prevention activities during this week.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 9th day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  