
    HOUSTON, Texas – Today, the Cruz for President campaign announced 77,190 volunteers have signed on to help Ted Cruz become the next President of the United States. Volunteers have signed up in all 50 states and five territories, including 5927 in the first four primary and caucus states.
The Cruz mobile app, which helps volunteers coordinate and sign up new people, has been downloaded 22,251 times. Cruz volunteers are currently working on expanding the campaign's network of support throughout the country by engaging in their communities, attending events, coordinating on social media, and asking friends and relatives to donate.
"Our volunteer network is the lifeblood of our grassroots campaign," said Ted Cruz. "Right now, we have tens of thousands of people posting on Facebook, tweeting to their friends, sharing videos and articles, coming to events, and talking about how we need to fight for conservative principles. They provide the energy and the manpower we need to get voters engaged and ready to show up to caucus and vote on Election Day. "
"Each one of our volunteers is a courageous conservative ready to do what they can – no matter how small or large – to elect Ted Cruz and bring real change to Washington," said Cruz for President National Political Director Mark Campbell. "Their help building a campaign to win is invaluable to us and cannot be overstated."
Throughout the campaign, Cruz has dominated on social media sites and built an army of small-dollar donors in large part due to the vast network of Cruz volunteers who have signed up through TedCruz.org, attended campaign events, or downloaded the Cruz campaign app. The campaign has also employed a vigorous national neighbor-to-neighbor voter turnout program to help people stay active through Election Day. As the campaign moves forward, volunteers will be manning campaign offices throughout the country, making voter outreach calls, doing door-to-door stops, staffing county and state fairs, and dozens of other activities critical for success.
  