
    Dear Herb:
Your departure from the Administration in the near future is a matter of very deep regret to me. For nearly five years it has been a deep satisfaction to know that you were immediately available for counsel on the most difficult and complex legal matters. As I endeavored to tell you when we first discussed your return to private life, I am indeed sorry that you cannot indefinitely continue as Attorney General. Yet, knowing the thought that you have given to your decision and the personal reasons that compelled it, I must abide by it and accept your resignation.
The goals you undertook to attain when you first assumed the responsibilities of your office were extremely challenging and of the highest importance to the proper functioning of our constitutional form of government. The real worth, indeed the very existence of a republic like ours stems from prompt accomplishment of justice, complete integrity in administering it, and a sturdy sense of fairness to all concerned. That these principles have been evident in the work of the Department of Justice in recent years is a shining tribute to your effective leadership, steadfastness of purpose, and your own devotion to principle. It is a highly significant contribution that you have made in the nation's service--a contribution that will have continuing effect in the Department's high standards of performance. It should long give you cause for pride and great satisfaction.
I am grateful, too, as are the other members of the Cabinet, for the invaluable assistance you have given in the formulation of policies of general interest. We will all share a deep sense of loss at your departure.
For the wise counsel that you have added to the handling of difficult problems, for the inspiration and support you have afforded your associates, and for the dedicated service you have rendered to the nation, I shall ever be thankful. I wish you continued success and full health and happiness in the many years ahead.
With warm personal regard,
Sincerely,
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
  