
    With 14 days until November 3rd, here is what's happening in the battlegrounds:

On the first day of in-person early voting in Wisconsin, Joe Biden spoke to WISC Madison and WISN Milwaukee about the importance of early voting and his plan to Build Back Better. Kamala Harris participated in a virtual rally in Milwaukee with Senator Tammy Baldwin, Congresswoman Gwen Moore, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, and Milwaukee County Executive David Crowley to mobilize voters and vote early. Harris also spoke to WKKV Milwaukee and The Earl Ingram Show. WATCH on WISN Milwaukee, READ in the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel, WATCH on WTMJ Milwaukee, WATCH on WITI Milwaukee
Jill Biden traveled to Michigan, making stops in Detroit, Madison Heights, Dearborn, and Saginaw. She heard about the impact the pandemic is having on those who are food insecure, met with volunteers, and rallied communities about the importance of early voting. WATCH on WDIV Detroit, READ in the Detroit Free Press, WATCH on WNEM Flint
Doug Emhoff rallied voters in Wilmington and Greenville, North Carolina and encouraged them to vote early. WATCH on WWAY Wilmington, WATCH WITN Greenville
Surrogates blanketed the airwaves across Pennsylvania, with former Senator Heidi Heitkamp, Valerie Jarrett, Congresswoman Nydia Velázquez, and Vice Chair of the DNC Michael Blake encouraging voters to vote early and support Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. WATCH Heidi Heitkamp on WJET Erie
The Mayors of Akron, Columbus, Dayton, Toledo, and Youngstown, Ohio marched to the polls to cast their ballots and mobilized voters to join the movement to elect Joe Biden, Kamala Harris, and Democrats up and down the ticket. WATCH on WKYC Cleveland, READ in the Toledo Blade
Maine Senator Angus King wrote an op-ed for the Kennebec Journal about why Joe Biden is the best choice for Maine voters. The op-ed highlights Joe Biden's plan to put the economy back on track, get the coronavirus pandemic under control, and unite the divided country with his compassionate leadership. READ in the Kennebec Journal
In New Hampshire, Cindy McCain joined a virtual listening session with Granite State veterans and military families and spoke about her support for Joe Biden, who will unite our nation, offer real solutions for veterans and military families in the Granite State and across the country, and lead with dignity. WATCH on WMUR Manchester
In Virginia, Rhode Island Secretary of State Nellie Gorbea spoke with Univision DC about the importance of the Latino vote and the growing number of endorsements that Joe Biden and Kamala Harris have earned. WATCH on Univision DC
In Arizona, actor George Lopez joined Biden for President for "The Luchadores: Arizona Edition" — a virtual conversation moderated by Senior Advisor Cristóbal Alex to discuss the issues that matter most to Latinos in the upcoming election, and Latino men in particular, and encourage families and communities to vote early for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. @CristobalJAlex, Twitter
Biden for President Florida hosted virtual events and phone banks across Florida to encourage seniors to vote early for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. Jon "Bowzer" Bauman and Florida Democratic Party Chair Terrie Rizzo hosted a Seniors for Biden Early Vote Special Brunch and Congresswoman Donna Shalala cast her vote early, accompanied by the Biden-Harris Campaign Bus. @BidenForFL, Twitter
In Georgia, Biden for President Georgia launched its Out for Biden LGBTQ Leadership Council, which includes elected officials, faith leaders, and advocates, in support of Biden's plan to advance LGBTQ+ equality in America and the rest of the world. READ in Project Q Atlanta
In Minnesota, AFL-CIO President Bill McCarthy, CEO of Planned Parenthood Minnesota, North Dakota, and South Dakota Sarah Stoesz, and State House candidate Esther Agbaje spoke to voters in the Twin Cities and Moorhead about what's at stake in this election. LISTEN to Esther Agbaje on KFAI Radio
The "Battle for the Soul of the Nation" bus tour made its final stops today in several locations across Reno, Nevada to energize local voters. @CullenMiguel, Twitter
In Nebraska, Biden for President Nebraska hosted a "We Know Joe" press conference where elected officials, including Senator Ben Nelson, and Nebraska voters shared their personal experiences meeting and working with Joe Biden, and reminded Nebraskans to vote early for the Biden-Harris ticket. @asanderford, Twitter
In Colorado, Kevin Kwan, author of bestselling novel Crazy Rich Asians, State Senator Julie Gonzales, and State Representative Leslie Herod joined Biden for President for a Birthday Celebration for Senator Kamala Harris to encourage voter participation and engagement. @SenadoraJulie, Twitter
In Texas, AAPIs and Women for Biden hosted a "Mamas for Momala" phone bank to celebrate Kamala Harris's birthday. @shannonrwatts, Twitter
In Iowa, Johan Bergenas, an environmental security expert, who just became a U.S. citizen this summer, penned an op-ed in the Iowa City Press Citizen about why he is supporting Joe Biden and Kamala Harris in his first election. READ in the Iowa City Press Citizen

  