
    
  ENDORSEMENT: ILLINOIS SENATE REPUBLICAN LEADER CHRISTINE RADOGNO HEADS KASICH FOR AMERICA'S ILLINOIS TEAM

Leader Radogno to serve as Illinois State Chairman
Dan Cronin, Dave Syverson, Ed Sullivan, Ron Sandack, Tom Demmer, David Harris, Randy Frese, Jim Schultz, Pat Brady and Sean Morrison to serve as State Co-Chairs
Team includes seven sitting IL legislators, the former Chairman of the Illinois Republican Party, three county party chairmen
Today the Kasich for America campaign announced that Illinois State Senate Republican Leader Christine Radogno will chair the Illinois presidential campaign for Ohio Governor John Kasich. In all, eighteen officeholders and party officials announced their endorsement of Kasich today, including seven current state legislators, the former Chairman of the Illinois Republican Party, three county party chairmen, and current and former public officials from across the state.
Republican Leader Christine Radogno is the first female Caucus Leader of either party in Illinois General Assembly history. Leader Radogno has served in the Illinois Senate since 1997, represents the 41st District in DuPage, Will and Cook Counties, and is a sitting member on the Senate Executive Committee. She is considered a top expert on the Illinois state budget, providing leadership across an array of budgetary challenges to help put the state on solid financial ground.
Said Leader Radogno, "As governor, John Kasich took over a state that was dying. Before he took office, Ohio had lost more than 350,000 private sector jobs, faced an $8 billion projected budget hole, and businesses were fleeing to other states. In four short years, he helped turn his state around, and under his watch, Ohio has created 347,000 private sector jobs, amassed a $2 billion surplus, and by cutting taxes by more than $5 billion, Ohio became business-friendly again. As a leader in a state very similar to Ohio, I understand the significance of his accomplishments. Kasich's record of success serves as a model for other Midwestern states, and it is little wonder that 62% of Ohioans approve of the job he's doing."
Kasich for America Illinois Team
Chairman:
Christine Radogno, Republican Leader, Illinois Senate
Co-Chairs:
Dan Cronin, DuPage County Board Chairman
Dave Syverson, Illinois State Senator, 35th District
Ed Sullivan, Illinois House of Representatives, 51st Distrct
David Harris, Illinois House of Representatives, 53rd District
Ron Sandack, Illinois House of Representatives, 81st District
Tom Demmer, Illinois House of Representatives, 90th District
Randy Frese, Illinois House of Representatives, 94th District
Jim Schultz, Director, Illinois Department of Commerce and Economic Opportunity; Chairman, Citizens for Rauner
Pat Brady, former Chairman of the Illinois Republican Party
Sean Morrison, Cook County Commissioner, 17th District
Leadership Team:
Aaron Del Mar, Chairman of the Cook County Republican Party
Seth McMillan, Chairman of the Christian County Republican Party
Jerome Groniger, Chairman of the Coles County Republican Party
Liz Gorman, former Cook County Commissioner, 17th District
Cory Jobe, Director, Illinois Office of Tourism, Ward 6 Alderman
John Farney, Champaign County Auditor
Kristy Stephenson, City Treasurer, City of Metropolis
"I can't imagine a more experienced, talented team, and I am humbled by this incredible show of support," said Kasich. "Illinois is a very important state, and under the direction of this group of respected and influential leaders, I know we are going to be very competitive here."
  