
    The Clinton campaign announced today the formation of the Colorado Women for Hillary Council. The Council is made up of women from across the state who will be active leaders in Colorado, speaking to their friends, family and associates about this election, and helping to grow the network of women across America supporting Hillary Clinton's campaign.
This announcement is part of the campaign's week long focus on Women Changing America. During the week, the campaign is highlighting the decisive role women can play in this election, discussing issues important to women, and celebrating the ways that women are changing America everyday.
"In 35 years as an advocate for women, children and families, I know that women can make a powerful difference," Hillary said. "Women are changing America and I am so proud to welcome the Colorado Women for Hillary Council to our campaign. Working together, we will address the issues of concern to women and families, and how we can make the changes America needs."
Members of the Colorado Women for Hillary Council will join Hillary for a conference call this week. They are encouraged to be ambassadors for Hillary by reaching out to their networks on Hillary's behalf while also educating and empowering others to make history by making Hillary our 44th President.
"I have known Hillary Clinton for 15 years, and know she is the kind of person who makes everyone she meets feel important," said Gail Schoettler, the Former Lieutenant Governor of Colorado. "I regularly travel around the world, and everywhere I go, people talk about their admiration for Hillary Clinton. She is the one candidate who can restore respect for America abroad immediately."
Senator Paula Sandoval added, "I am proud to help lead the effort of Women for Hillary in Colorado. Over the past nine months, I have seen first-hand how her support among women – and all voters – in Colorado has grown and solidified. Hillary has the experience and qualifications to lead our country. She is the right choice for Colorado, and the right choice for America."
Hillary kicked off the week with an appearance on The View and spoke at the Eleanor Roosevelt Legacy Committee's Annual Fall Campaign Luncheon in New York. On Tuesday, she traveled to New Hampshire to announce a new policy proposal to help parents balance work and family life. On Wednesday, nearly 1,000 women contributors from 47 states around the country will convene for a women's summit in support of the Clinton campaign – a full-day event that will raise well over $1 million. And on Thursday, Hillary will discuss the importance of health care for women when she participates in the Presidential Candidate Forums organized by the Federation of American Hospitals and Families USA and hosts a conference call with health care professionals from the American Medical Women's Association.
The week's events underscore why Hillary enjoys such deep support among women voters by emphasizing how her strength and experience make her the candidate best able to deliver change on the issues most important to them.
The members of the Colorado Women for Hillary Council reflect Hillary's vast and diverse supporters, spanning all occupations and communities.
Hillary's Colorado Women for Hillary Leadership Council includes:

Debbie Benefield, Colorado State Representative
Carol Boigon, Denver City Councilwoman At-large
Alice Madden, State House Majority Leader
Karen Middleton, Member, Colorado State Board of Education
Judy Montero, Colorado State Representative
Dr. Angie Paccione, Candidate for U.S. Congress, 2004
Paula Sandoval, Colorado State Senator
Gail Schoettler, Former Lieutenant Governor
Wilma Webb, Former State Representative
List in formation...

Hillary's Colorado Women for Hillary Council includes:

Adele La Riviere, Loveland
Alison Mason, Fort Collins
Andrea Davis, Boulder
Andrea Rice, Boulder
Betty Hoye, Boulder
Blythe Toussaint, Longmont
Bridget KerMorris, Englewood
Carolyn Powell, Boulder
Carolyn Schuham, Boulder
Cindy Lair, Boulder
Dana Frazee, Westminster
Darcy Ratner, Niwot
Dawn Henry, Westminster
Deb Olszonowicz, Lafayette
Diana Greer, Loveland
Dottie Lamm, Denver
Ellen Robinson, Denver
Fern O'Brien, Boulder
Dr. Helayne Jones, Boulder
Holly Nelson, Steamboat Springs
Jeanne Winer, Boulder
Jessica Harris, Denver
Jo Stone, Littleton
Julia Ricci, Broomfield
Julie Stone, Louisville
K.J. McCorry, Boulder
Karen Frame, Boulder
Karey Riemersma, Denver
Kathy Deitsch, Wheat Ridge
Katie Hoffner, Fort Collins
Kim Rider, Boulder
Kitty Edwards, Boulder
Linda Shoemaker, Boulder
Lisa Martin, Broomfield
Liz Shepard, Englewood
Marsha Walker, Boulder
Marty Bender, Littleton
Mary Hoagland, Denver
Megan Faber, Denver
Michelle Carpenter, Louisville
Mona Merchant, Lakewood
Monisha Merchant, Lakewood
Nancy Hegele, Denver
Nancy Miller, Boulder
Pam Pressel, Denver
Patricia Spiegel, Aptos
Regina Schiefer, Monument
Saah Larrabee, Boulder
Sacha Millstone, Boulder
Sally Martin, Boulder
Sarah Amirani, Longmont
Sharon Boyce, Loveland
Star Waring, Boulder
Stephanie Pellegrine, Louisville
Suzanne Arnold, Erie
Terre Rushton, Louisville,
Tiana Gray, Boulder
Victoria Mandell, Boulder
Williams Sheri, Westminster
List in formation...

  