
    Jose Antonio Aponte, of Colorado, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2007, vice Martha B. Gould, term expired.
Sandra Frances Ashworth, of Idaho, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2004, vice Paulette H. Holahan.
Edward Louis Bertorelli, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2005, vice C. E. Abramson, term expired.
Carol L. Diehl, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2005, vice Walter Anderson, term expired.
Allison Druin, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2006, vice Rebecca T. Bingham, term expired.
Beth Fitzsimmons, of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2006, vice Jose-Marie Griffiths, term expired.
Patricia M. Hines, of South Carolina, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2005, vice LeVar Burton, term expired.
Colleen Ellen Huebner, of Washington, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2007, vice Jeanne Hurley Simon.
Stephen M. Kennedy, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2007, vice Donald L. Robinson.
Bridget L. Lamont, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2008, vice Marilyn Gell Mason, term expired.
Mary H. Perdue, of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2008, vice Frank J. Lucchino, resigned.
Herman Lavon Totten, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2008, vice Bobby L. Roberts, term expired.
  