
    We will work to strengthen vulnerable families and communities, and we will help to build and grow a stronger, healthier, and drug-free society.President Donald J. Trump 
ADDRESSING THE DRIVING FORCES OF THE OPIOID CRISIS: President Donald J. Trump's Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse is confronting the driving forces behind the opioid crisis.

This Administration secured $6 billion in new funding over two years to fight opioid abuse.
The President's Initiative to Stop Opioid Abuse will:

Reduce drug demand through education, awareness, and prevention efforts.
Cut off the flow of illicit drugs across our borders and within communities.
Save lives by expanding opportunities for evidence-based treatments for opioid addiction.


On September 19, 2018, the Administration awarded more than $1 billion in funding to State and local entities to address the opioid crisis.

Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration awarded $930 million in grants to support prevention, treatment, and recovery activities.
Health Resources and Services Administration awarded more than $396 million to 1,232 community health centers, over 120 rural community organizations, and academic institutions.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention awarded States, territories, tribes, and partners more than $194 million to bolster prevention and data collection efforts battling this crisis.



REDUCING DEMAND AND OVER-PRESCRIPTION: President Trump's Opioid Initiative is educating Americans about the dangers of opioid misuse and curbing over-prescription. 

The Trump Administration is partnering with the Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP), Truth Initiative, and Ad Council to prevent the misuse of opioids among young adults.
The Administration supports research efforts for innovative therapies to prevent addiction, to offer non-addictive pain management alternatives, and to improve overdose prevention tools.

This Administration has nearly doubled funding for opioid and pain research from $600 million to $1.1 billion and is supporting research for a vaccine to prevent opioid addiction.


In order to reduce the over-prescription of opioids, the President has implemented a Safer Prescribing Plan that:

Seeks to cut nationwide opioid prescription fills by one-third within three years.
Calls for 95 percent of opioid prescriptions reimbursed by Federal healthcare to be issued using best practices within five years.
Ensures all Federally-employed healthcare providers adopt best practices for opioid prescribing within five years.
Helps States transition to a nationally interoperable network of Prescription Drug Monitoring Programs.


Strengthening community-driven responses, the Administration has issued $90.9 million in Drug-Free Communities Support Program grants to 731 local drug prevention coalitions.
Efforts to reduce demand and over-prescription are already seeing results.

High-dose opioid prescriptions fell by 16 percent since President Trump took office.
In 2017, the number of first-time heroin users ages 12 and older fell by more than 50 percent.



CUTTING OFF THE SUPPLY OF ILLICIT DRUGS: President Trump's Opioid Initiative is cracking down on international and domestic illicit drug supply chains devastating American communities. 

President Trump is working to keep dangerous drugs out of the United States by:

Securing land borders, ports of entry, and waterways against illegal smuggling.
Requiring more advance data to flag high-risk international mail shipments.
Using advanced drug-detecting canines to inspect high-risk shipments.
Testing and identifying suspicious substances in high-risk international packages.
Engaging with China and Mexico to reduce supplies of heroin and other illicit opioids.


The Department of Justice (DOJ) Prescription Interdiction and Litigation Task Force is helping to fight the prescription opioid crisis by:

Expanding the DOJ Opioid Fraud and Abuse Detection Unit's efforts to prosecute corrupt or criminally negligent doctors, pharmacies, and distributors.
Aggressively deploying all available criminal and civil actions to hold opioid manufacturers accountable for any unlawful practices.


The Administration will scale up efforts by DOJ's Joint Criminal Opioid Darknet Enforcement team to stop illicit opioid sales online.
President Trump's Administration is strengthening criminal penalties for dealing and trafficking opioids in the United States.

DOJ will seek the death penalty against drug traffickers, where appropriate under the law.
The President supports legislation to reduce the amounts needed to invoke mandatory minimums for drug traffickers knowingly distributing opioids lethal in trace amounts.


President Trump's efforts to cut off the supply of illicit drugs are already seeing results.

DOJ shut down the country's biggest Darknet distributor of drugs.
DOJ indicted two Chinese nationals accused of manufacturing and shipping deadly fentanyl and 250 other drugs to at least 25 countries and 37 States.
DOJ launched Operation Synthetic Opioid Surge to target fentanyl and heroin dealers in the districts with the most severe overdose deaths.
In fiscal year (FY) 2017, DOJ increased the average Federal sentence for drug trafficking to the strongest sentences since 2013.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement seized more than 2,300 pounds of fentanyl in FY 2017.
Customs and Border Protection (CBP) saw a 66 percent increase in the advance electronic data they received on international mail packages in FY 2018 compared to FY 2017.



HELPING THOSE STRUGGLING WITH ADDICTION: President Trump's Opioid Initiative is helping those struggling with addiction through evidence-based treatment and recovery support services.

The Administration is working to ensure first responders are supplied with naloxone, a lifesaving medication used to reverse overdoses.
Department of Labor's Employment and Training Administration awarded more than $30 million to States to help people affected by opioid addiction rejoin the workforce.
The Trump Administration is empowering local leaders with relevant opioid data to coordinate and optimize their efforts to quickly respond to spikes in overdoses.
The Administration is working to expand access to evidence-based addiction treatment in every State and to veterans, particularly Medication-Assisted Treatment for opioid addiction.
President Trump supports changing the law prohibiting Medicaid from reimbursing residential treatment at certain facilities with more than 16 beds.

In the meantime, the Administration has been approving State Medicaid demonstration projects that address these barriers to inpatient treatment.


The Administration supports efforts to identify and treat offenders in the criminal justice system who are struggling with addiction.

This includes screening every Federal inmate for opioid addiction at intake.
Those who screen positive and are approved for placement in residential reentry may volunteer for naltrexone treatment and be connected with recovery services.
The Administration supports drug courts to provide appropriate offenders with treatment as an alternative to incarceration, or as a condition of supervised release.


Efforts to provide help to those struggling with addiction are already seeing results.

Last year, America had an increase in the number of patients age 12 and older with illicit drug-use disorders being treated at specialty facilities and private provider offices.
There has been a more than 20 percent increase in young adults aged 18 to 25 receiving outpatient treatment.



HISTORIC CONGRESSIONAL ACTION TO COMBAT THE OPIOID CRISIS: President Trump worked hand in hand with Congress to advance the SUPPORT Act, the single largest legislative package addressing a single drug crisis in history. Among the provisions in this historic legislation are:

IMD CARE Act: Provides States with a Medicaid State plan option to provide residential treatment in facilities (Institutions for Mental Diseases) more than 16 beds, in certain circumstances.
STOP Act: Requires the United States Postal Service to share advanced electronic data with CBP on 100 percent of packages entering the country.

This will help identify suspicious shipments and stop deadly fentanyl from entering from China and Mexico.


CRIB Act: Supports the most vulnerable victims of the opioid crisis by allowing State Medicaid programs to cover healthcare services to infants suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome in pediatric recovery centers.

Currently, pediatric recovery centers cannot bill Medicaid for services to babies in withdrawal, thereby limiting how many families they are able to serve.


CARA 2.0 Act: Increases the funding authorization levels for certain programs enacted in 2016 under the CARA Act.
Youth Prevention and Recovery: Leverages existing job training resources to create a pilot program to address workforce shortages exacerbated by the opioid crisis.

This will help employers fill job openings and get those in recovery back on their feet.


ONDCP Reauthorization: Reauthorizes ONDCP and allows its media campaigns to focus on anti-drug messages for all age groups, not just youth as the law currently states.

This also reauthorizes the Drug-Free Communities Support Program and the High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Program.


Improving Recovery and Reunifying Families Act: Authorizes $15 million for a "recovery coach" program for parents with children in foster care due to parental substance use.

The goal of the program is to reduce the length of time children spend in foster care due to a parent who is struggling with a substance use disorder.


CAREER Act: Improves resources and wrap-around support services for those recovering from a substance use disorder who are transitioning from treatment programs to the workforce.

This includes $25 million authorized for workforce participation grants.



  