
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Patrick A. Corvington, CEO, Corporation for National and Community Service
•      Daniel I. Gordon, Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget
•      Pamela S. Hyde, Administrator, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
•      John H. Laub, Director,National Institute of Justice, Department of Justice
•      Ian Solomon, United States Executive Director, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
•      Richard Sorian, Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, Department of Health and Human Services
President Obama said, "These men and women bring with them a wealth of experience and talent, and I am grateful for their willingness to commit themselves to public service. I look forward to working with them in these important roles in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Patrick A. Corvington – CEO, Corporation for National and Community Service
Patrick Corvington is a recognized expert on non-profit sector leadership and capacity issues, new and emerging philanthropy, and volunteerism. He currently serves at the Annie E. Casey Foundation as a Senior Associate responsible for guiding the foundation's grantees on issues related to leadership development, next generation leadership, and capacity building. He also acts as Senior Advisor to the Foundation's Executive Vice President, Ralph Smith, who is the Chair of the Council on Foundations. As part of this work, Corvington is engaged directly with some of the top social innovation intermediaries in the nonprofit sector and has co- authored publications such as Ready to Lead: Next Generation Leaders Speak Out and Next Shift: Beyond the Nonprofit Leadership Crisis. From 2003-2005, Corvington was Executive Director of Innovation Network, a non-profit agency whose mission is to build the evaluation capacity of the non-profit sector. Previously, he conducted policy research in the Metropolitan Housing and Communities Center at The Urban Institute, and also worked to build the capacity of nonprofit organizations abroad. A native of Haiti who grew up in Africa, Mr. Corvington immigrated to the United States as a teenager. He worked his way through college, earning his B.A. in Sociology from the University of Maryland, College Park, and his M.A. in Public Policy from Johns Hopkins University, where he received the National Minority Leadership Fellowship from the Kellogg Foundation. During his career, he has served as Interim Director at the Sykesville Group Shelter Home, as a patient advocate in a community-based HIV/AIDS clinic and has volunteered his time working in the infirmary of a shelter for homeless persons. He currently serves on the board of directors of Echoing Green, the Washington Regional Association of Grantmakers, and the advisory board of the American Humanics Nonprofit Workforce Coalition.
Daniel I. Gordon -- Administrator for Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget
A career contracting professional at the Government Accountability Office (GAO) since 1992, Daniel Gordon has served as GAO Acting General Counsel since May. Prior to that, he worked as Deputy General Counsel starting in 2006; he led the Procurement Law Division from 2000 until 2006. He also has served since 2002 as an adjunct faculty member for the George Washington University Law School. Before joining Federal service, Mr. Gordon worked in private practice and also clerked for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Mr. Gordon received his J.D., cum laude, in 1986 from Harvard Law School. He earned a Master's Degree in politics from Oxford University in 1974. He graduated, summa cum laude, with a Bachelor's of Arts degree in politics in 1972 from Brandeis University.
Pamela S. Hyde – Administrator, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services
Pamela Hyde has served as Secretary of the New Mexico Human Services Department (HSD) since 2003. Hyde has 30 years of experience in management and consulting for public sector systems of healthcare and human services. She has held several key public sector management positions, including as Director of the Ohio Department of Mental Health, the Ohio Department of Human Services, and the Seattle Department of Housing and Human Services. She also previously served as a CEO of a private non-profit behavioral healthcare organization. Hyde is a member of or has served as a consultant to many national organizations, including the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, the American College of Mental Health Administration, and the President's New Freedom Commission on Mental Health. She has received awards from the American Medical Association, the National Governors Association, the Seattle Management Association, and a number of consumer and provider organizations for her leadership and commitment to the well-being of those who rely on publicly funded health and human services. She received a B.A. from Missouri State University and a J.D. from the University of Michigan.
John H. Laub – Director, National Institute of Justice, Department of Justice
John Laub is the Distinguished University Professor in the Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice at the University of Maryland, College Park. He is also an Affiliate Faculty Member in the Department of Sociology at the University and a Visiting Scholar in the Institute for Quantitative Social Science at Harvard. Dr. Laub was previously a professor of criminal justice at Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts from 1981 to 1998. He has served as the President and as a fellow of the American Society of Criminology, which awarded him the Edwin H. Sutherland Award. He was also named a Distinguished Scholar-Teacher at the University of Maryland for the 2006-2007 academic year. Dr. Laub was the Editor of the Journal of Quantitative Criminology for five years and currently serves as an Associate Editor of Criminology. From 2002 to 2008, Dr. Laub was a member of the Committee on Law and Justice of the National Academies of Science. He has published two award winning books and many research articles in the areas of crime and the life course, juvenile delinquency and juvenile justice, criminal victimization, and the history of criminology. He received his B.A. degree from the University of Illinois, Chicago, and his M.A. and Ph.D. in criminal justice from the State University of New York at Albany.
Ian H. Solomon, United States Executive Director, International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
Ian Solomon is now Senior Advisor to the Treasury Secretary on international and domestic issues, including the Administration's global food security initiative. From March 2005 through November 2008, Ian served in then-U.S. Senator Barack Obama's Office as Legislative Counsel for poverty, economic development, government reform, tax, budget, banking, and finance issues. Previously, Mr. Solomon was Associate Dean at Yale Law School overseeing finance and administration. Mr. Solomon was also a consultant with McKinsey & Company, serving global financial institutions, media companies, and non-profit organizations. On the urban economic development front, he served as Chairman of the New Haven Port Authority and as Treasurer to revitalize New Haven's world-renowned Shubert Theater. He directed an initiative to increase small and minority business contracting with the City of New Haven, and worked to create jobs through technology transfer by Yale University. In New York, Ian advised the CEO of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone, a $300 million economic development fund, and served as Acting Director of its small business lending subsidiary to restructure problem loans. From his time living in South Africa, Ian co-authored two chapters in "No More Tears…" Struggles for Land in Mpumalanga, South Africa (Africa World Press, 1997). He received his B.A. magna cum laude from Harvard College and his law degree from Yale.
Richard Sorian, Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, Department of Health and Human Services
Richard Sorian is Vice President for Public Policy and External Relations for the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA). He has been with NCQA since 2003 and has directed the organization's media relations, policy development and advocacy, and relations with employers, consumers, and other key stakeholders. Before working for NCQA, Sorian was Director of Public Affairs for the Center for Studying Health System Change and a Project Director at the Georgetown University Institute for Health Care Research and Policy. From 1993 to 1998, Sorian was a Senior Advisor for Health Policy Communications in the Office of Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna E. Shalala. In that capacity, Sorian focused on health care reform, HIV/AIDS policy, and health care quality improvement. In 1997-98, he served as Deputy Director of the President's Advisory Commission on Consumer Protection and Quality in the Health Care Industry, where he directed work on the Patient's Bill of Rights. From 1980 to 93, Sorian was an award-winning journalist covering U.S. health care policy development. He was editor of Medicine & Health and the Journal of American Health Policy. He is also the author of three books: The Bitter Pill: Tough Choice in America's Health Policy (1989); A New Deal for American Health Care (1993); and The Health Care 500 (1988). He is a graduate of George Washington University and, in 1989, was awarded a Fellowship for Advanced Studies in Public Health at the Harvard School of Public Health.
  