
    As we celebrate the 100th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the United States and Finland, our relationship is stronger than ever. It is based on our shared values: democracy, human rights, and the rule of law. Links between our governments, our companies, and our people are increasing. We want to further deepen and widen these connections.
The United States and Finland share a strong economic relationship. Building on our bilateral trade and investment volumes of well over $20 billion, we will work together to further expand commerce and investment between our countries, including by seeking progress in United States–European Union trade negotiations. We strive for free, fair, and more reciprocal bilateral trade and investment, which is an engine of growth, productivity, innovation, job creation, and development. We will fight back against unfair trade practices to level the playing field for our workers and businesses.
Energy security and diversification of energy sources underpin Transatlantic and European security and our economies. The United States and Finland will cooperate to strengthen energy markets and develop infrastructure in the pursuit of these goals, as well as collaborate on clean and efficient energy technologies. One core aim is to reduce dependence on any single energy source.
The United States and Finland enjoy exceptionally strong security cooperation. Together, we defend and advance Transatlantic and global security. We will further enhance our cooperation to meet tomorrow's challenges by developing defense capabilities, boosting our cyber and hybrid defenses, and protecting critical infrastructure and technology. The United States and Finland reiterate our support for effective international arms control that meets 21st century security challenges.
The United States and Finland, as members of the Arctic Council, want to maintain the Arctic as a region of cooperation and low tension. Security, sustainable development, environmental protection, the well-being of the people living in the Arctic, and cooperation in this important region are essential to us. Arctic governance, guided by applicable international law, is the responsibility of Arctic nations, particularly through the Arctic Council.
The Arctic provides new economic opportunities, but environmental changes such as the diminishing of sea ice raise environmental concerns. The United States and Finland share a commitment to clean air and water and environmental protection, including the reduction of particulate matter, and with it, black carbon. Our two countries will use our cold-weather proficiency, understanding, and technology to advance our cooperation in the Arctic, including with respect to the production of new icebreakers.
In order to improve the competitiveness and productivity of our societies, the United States and Finland will strengthen our bilateral and Transatlantic cooperation in innovation, technology, and research, especially in new technologies such as 5G and 6G, artificial intelligence, robotics, and quantum computing. Acknowledging the importance and transformational power of these technologies, especially telecommunications, we will work together to ensure that they are developed and deployed to be a force for good. We will effectively address the security challenges stemming from them by using only technology providers, components, and supply chains that are reliable and trustworthy. Beyond our excellent bilateral relations, the United States and Finland also continue to work for a strong transatlantic relationship and effective international cooperation in tackling common challenges.
  