
    West Des Moines, IA—Iowa state Sen. Zach Wahls (D-Coralville) endorsed Elizabeth Warren for president on Wednesday. Wahls is a sixth-generation Iowan and first-term senator representing portions of Johnson and Muscatine and all of Cedar County in eastern Iowa. He was elected in 2018.
"Beating Trump isn't enough. I'm endorsing Elizabeth Warren because we need a president who will fix the corrupt system that made the Trump Presidency possible—and she's got a plan for that," Wahls said.
"The corrupt cronies, big banks and massive monopolies are all terrified of an Elizabeth Warren presidency. I'm caucusing for Elizabeth because she scares the bejesus out of all the right people," Wahls added. "There have been moments throughout American history that demanded big, structural change. This is one of them, and I'm supporting Elizabeth Warren because she's rising to the challenge of our time."
Wahls first gained national attention as a 19-year-old in 2011 for his testimony before the Iowa House Judiciary Committee about growing up with gay parents. Video of his speech went viral, ultimately becoming YouTube's most-watched political video of the year.
"Zach's fights for decency and equality are an example to us all," Warren said. "He is a courageous rising leader for Iowa, and I'm proud to have his support in our fight for big, structural change."
Wahls later co-founded and served as executive director of Scouts for Equality, which led the national campaign to end the Boy Scouts of America's ban on gay people. He is the author of the bestselling book "My Two Moms: Lessons of Love, Strength, and What Makes a Family." He delivered a primetime speech at the 2012 Democratic National Convention supporting President Obama.
Wahls joins State Treasurer Michael Fitzgerald, former Lieutenant Governor Sally Pederson, eight fellow state legislators and dozens of local officials and activists who have endorsed Warren's campaign.
Warren returns to Iowa on Friday for the Iowa Democratic Party Liberty & Justice Celebration, followed by five town halls in eastern Iowa.
  