
    LAS VEGAS — Bernie Sanders supporters have organized more than 4,000 debate-watch parties Tuesday night in homes, union halls, theaters, college campuses and other locations from coast to coast.
In what is expected to be the biggest online organizing event for any presidential campaign ever, volunteers have planned the gatherings to watch the two-hour debate featuring Sanders and four other candidates for the Democratic Party presidential nomination.
Ashley Glassberg of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, said she's "making Bernie face tokens to play bingo with" during her party.
Caitlyn Wood of New London, New Hampshire, said she's hosting a party for about 65 college students at Colby-Sawyer College. "It's really exciting to see such interest in politics among young people, especially on a college campus," she said. "Hopefully the momentum will only continue all the way up and through the primary in February!"
Shay Stein is hosting a party at a local bar in Henderson, Nevada, about 45 minutes from the site of the Democratic debate. Stein wrote: "I am so excited to host a debate watch party because the energy that Bernie has brought to this election is best shared amongst his supporters (and those who don't know they are supporters yet!)."
In Urbana, Illinois, some 100 students will march across the University of Illinois campus before the debate to show their support for Sanders.
In Fife, Washington, longshoremen will open the doors to their union hall to encourage organized labor and community support for Sanders.
In Upper Arlington, Ohio, Jane Nida, a 17-year-old high school senior, is hosting several of her classmates to watch the debate together at her family's home.
In Chicago and Los Angeles, well-known comedians – including Lizz Winstead and Al Madrigal from Comedy Central – will warm up crowds and offer commentary during breaks in the debate.
"The overwhelming interest in the debates is another example of the growing grassroots movement that is building for Bernie and his powerful message about taking on the billionaire class and rebuilding the American middle class," said Jeff Weaver, the Sanders campaign manager.
Click here to see a map of public debate-watch parties across the United States.
Click here to read more stories and quotes from debate watch party hosts.
  