
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 12
In the morning, the President traveled to Denver and Morrison, CO. In the afternoon, he traveled to Englewood, CO.
October 13
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Albuquerque, NM.
October 15
The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by storm surge, heavy rains, and wind damage associated with Tropical Storm Josephine on October 7 and continuing.
October 16
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to San Diego, CA.
The President announced his intention to appoint Donald J. Barry as U.S. Federal Representative to the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission.
The President announced the following recipients of the 1996 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Awards: Dana Commercial Credit Corporation of Toledo, OH; ADAC Laboratories of Milpitas, CA; Custom Research, Inc., of Minneapolis, MN; and Trident Precision Manufacturing, Inc., of Webster, NY.
October 17
In the morning, the President traveled to Tustin, CA. In the afternoon, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving early the next morning.
October 18
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Rafiq al-Hariri of Lebanon.
The President announced the appointment of Donna H. Cunninghame to be the Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service. Ms. Cunninghame will serve as a recess appointee.
The President announced the appointment of Karen Shepherd to be U.S. Executive Director of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Ms. Shepherd will serve as a recess appointee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jean A. Riezman to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
  