
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 1
In the morning, the President attended the annual Red Mass at St. Matthew's Cathedral with members of the Supreme Court.
October 2
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Heydar Aliyev of Azerbaijan.
In the afternoon, the President met with NATO Secretary General Willy Claes.
The White House announced the President has invited President Jiang Zemin of China to attend a bilateral summit meeting in New York City on October 24.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the Commission on Dietary Supplement Labels:
—Malden Nesheim;
—Annette Dickinson;
—Shiriki K. Kumanyika;
—Norman R. Farnsworth;
—Margaret Gilhooley;
—Robert S. McCaleb; and
—Anthony T. Podesta.
October 4
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Newark, NJ. Later in the afternoon, the President met with Pope John Paul II at Sacred Heart Cathedral.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a vespers prayer service. Following the service, they returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate David Finn to the National Council on the Humanities.
The President announced his intention to renominate Ernest G. Green as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate C.E. (Abe) Abramson and Walter Anderson to serve as members of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.
The President announced his intention to appoint Frank Ballesteros, John Litzenberg, Clara Miller, and George Surgeon as members of the Community Development Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph Sewall to serve as a member and Kenneth M. Curtis to serve as an alternate member of the Roosevelt Campobello International Park Commission.
The President has selected the following delegates to attend the White House Conference on Travel and Tourism on October 30-31: Peter Armstrong; Peter A. Bakke; Sally Begay; Robert D. Billington; Hope J. Boonshaft; Aaron Broussard; David Van Buskirk; Romy Cachola; Stephen J. Cloobeck; Oshel B. Craigo; Andrew P. Daly; Stephen T. Economy; Robert Giersdorf; John David Gunner; Beverly A. Hollingworth; Sylvan (Sonny) Holtzman; Geoffrey F. Hurtado; Jeanne Jacobsen; Shelley Johnson; Sandra D. Jones; Kathy S. Lewand; Stephen J. Lombardo; Crit Luallen; Anthony MacConnell; J. Granger Macfarlane; Jacqueline B. McNulty; Montine McNulty; Melanie Mills; Agnes Hui-Chun Mu; Neil W. Ostergren; Mary Lou Parks; James L. Pouravelis; Patrick Sciarratta; Judy Sidran; Keith Stokes; Marilyn J. Tomasi; Carmen Delia Venticinque; Craig D. Walter; Shelby Woods; Alon Yu; Nina Zagat; and Tim Zagat.
October 5
The President and Hillary Clinton recognized the following winners of the National Award for Museum Service for their work in the Nation's communities: the Brooklyn Children's Museum, Brooklyn, NY; the Mexican Fine Arts Center Museum, Chicago, IL; the Montshire Museum of Science, Norwich, VT; and the Wing Lauke Asian Museum, Seattle, WA.
October 6
In the morning, the President addressed the Bilderberg Steering Committee at the Four Seasons Hotel. He then attended a Democratic National Committee luncheon at the Hay Adams Hotel.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Martha's Vineyard, MA.
  