
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 28
In the morning, the President traveled from Houston, TX, to Providence, RI, arriving in the afternoon. Later, he made a conference call from the Westin Hotel to African Americans for Clinton/Gore '96. He then attended the Democratic National Committee reception for Representative Jack Reed at the Westin Hotel.
In the evening, the President traveled to Fall River and Boston, MA. Later, he attended a Democratic National Committee reception and dinner at the Meridian Hotel in Boston. After midnight, the President returned to Washington, DC.
September 29
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott, House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt, and Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle concerning his effort to arrange a Middle East summit meeting at the White House.
In the afternoon, The President had telephone conversations with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority, Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, and King Hussein I of Jordan inviting them to a summit meeting at the White House.
September 30
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Mubarak of Egypt concerning the situation in the Middle East and Mr. Mubarak's inability to attend a summit meeting at the White House.
The President announced his intention to nominate Letitia Chambers to be a Representative, and James C. Hormel and Prezell R. Robinson to be Alternate Representatives to the 51st session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jane
Lubchenco to the National Science Board, National Science Foundation.
The President declared a major disaster in South Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement recovery efforts in the areas struck by severe winds and flooding associated with Hurricane Fran on September 4 and continuing.
October 1
The President announced his intention to nominate Judith Espinosa to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation.
The President announced the nomination of William W. Ginsberg to be Assistant Secretary for Market Access and Compliance at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marilyn Golden to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
October 2
The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel R. Stanley to the Postal Rate Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate George W. Black, Jr., to serve as a member of the National Transportation Safety Board.
October 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Buffalo, NY. In the afternoon, he traveled to Chautauqua, NY.
The President announced his intention to appoint Karen T. Scates to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Rear Adm. R.M. Mitchell, Jr., to the Committee for Purchase From People Who are Blind or Severely Disabled.
The White House announced that the President signed legislation on October 2 that will expand duty free treatment of products imported from the West Bank and Gaza Strip and help spur economic development throughout the region.
  