
    If confirmed, Barry Myers of Pennsylvania will serve as Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, Department of Commerce. Mr. Myers has served as CEO of AccuWeather since 2007, and since then the company has experienced its highest grossing years, and its largest global web and mobile audience growth. He is one of the world's leading authorities on the use of weather information. He has given remarks at the World Meteorological Organization, World Federation of Scientists, American Meteorological Society (AMS), and many other organizations. For two decades, he served as a member of the nationally recognized Smeal College of Business. Mr. Myers is from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He graduated from the Smeal College of Business at Penn State and received a J.D. from Boston University Law School. He and his wife Holly have five children.
-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint John Rood to the Department of Defense
John C. Rood of Arizona will serve as Under Secretary of Defense for Policy. Mr. Rood most recently served as the Senior Vice President for Lockheed Martin International, where his responsibilities included developing and executing strategies to grow Lockheed Martin's international business, managing marketing and government relations activities, and overseeing offset and industrial cooperation activities. Mr. Rood's previous industry experience was at the Raytheon Company where he served as Vice President of U.S. Business Development. Mr. Rood served for more than 20 years in Federal Government positions, including Acting Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security, and Assistant Secretary of State for International Security and Nonproliferation. He also served at the National Security Council as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director of Counterproliferation and Director of Proliferation Strategy for Counterproliferation in Homeland Defense. Mr. Rood served at the Defense Department as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Forces Policy, and at the Central Intelligence Agency as an analyst following missile programs in foreign countries. In addition, Mr. Rood has also served as senior policy advisor to U.S. Senator Jon Kyl of Arizona.
  