
    "This election is a choice, the choice between the status quo -- going forward with the same policies of the last four years -- or instead, choosing real change, change that offers promise, promise that the future will be better than the past. If you are ready for that kind of change, if you want this to be a turning point in America's course, join Paul Ryan and me, get your friends and family to do the same, and vote now for the kind of leadership that these times demand." – Mitt Romney
Remarks
Ames, Iowa
October 26, 2012
Click Here To Watch Mitt Romney
MITT ROMNEY: "We face big challenges. But we also have big opportunities. New doors have been open to us to sell our ideas and products around the entire world. New technologies offer the promise of unbounded information and limitless innovation. New ideas are changing lives and hearts in diverse nations and among diverse peoples. If we seize the moment and rise to the occasion, the century ahead will be an American Century. Our children will graduate into jobs that are waiting for them. Our seniors will be confident that their retirement is secure. Our men and women will have good jobs and good pay and good benefits. And we will have every confidence that our lives are safe, and that our livelihoods are secure. What this requires is change, change from the course of the last four years. It requires that we put aside the small and the petty, and demand the scale of change we deserve: we need real change, big change. That time has come. Our campaign is about that kind of change--confronting the problems that politicians have avoided for over a decade, revitalizing our competitive economy, modernizing education, restoring our founding principles. This is the kind of change that promises a better future, one shaped by men and women pursuing their dreams in their own unique ways. This election is a choice, the choice between the status quo -- going forward with the same policies of the last four years -- or instead, choosing real change, change that offers promise, promise that the future will be better than the past. If you are ready for that kind of change, if you want this to be a turning point in America's course, join Paul Ryan and me, get your friends and family to do the same, and vote now for the kind of leadership that these times demand."
  