
    Pool Reports by Chris Johnson, Washington Blade



Sent:
Reports:




 October 31, 2020 09:04

In-town pool report #1 
?Good morning!
It's a crisp sunny day and 43 degrees at the White House. Pool has just taken the customary COVID test.
POTUS is heading off this morning for campaign stops, per his schedule. Your in-town pooler's role this morning should be extremely limited, but I'll let you know when motorcade departs. 


 October 31, 2020 11:09

 In-town pool report #2 
?Handing things off to the out-of-town pooler. Your in-town pooler asked the White House via email why POTUS was taking motorcade to JBA as opposed to Marine One, but didn't get a response. 




Pool Reports by Chanel Rion, One America News



Sent:
Reports:




 October 31, 2020 10:06

 FLOTUS Pool Report #1 - Departing JBA 
?First Lady Melania Trump has two campaign stops scheduled this chilly Halloween day. Today's events mark her second and third solo campaign speeches on the trail.
First stop: Kingsheart Farm - West Bend, Wisconsin.
FLOTUS departed White House 9:48am EST by motorcade arriving at Joint Base Andrews 10:04am. Pool travelled from the White House to JBA via accompanying motorcade.
Former WH Deputy Press Secretary now Press Secretary for the Trump Campaign Hogan Gidley is expected to introduce FLOTUS at today's events.
ABOUT WEST BEND, WISCONSIN:West Bend is in Washington County and sits approximately 40 minutes' drive north of Milwaukee.
Population (2010): 31,078
Median Income: $55k (6% lower than statewide median)
Voting 2016: Washington County voted 67.8% for Trump, 27.4% for Clinton. 


 October 31, 2020 8:50

 FLOTUS Pool Report #2 - Arrival in WI 
Executive Foxtrot One was wheels down at Milwaukee General Mitchell International Airport (MKE) at 11:01am CST.
Flight was peaceable. Campaign Press Secretary Hogan Gidley visited press cabin for a quick hello – he is to give a short speech before introducing FLOTUS for both events.
FLOTUS exited plane at 11:16am CST; East Wing Chief of Staff Stephanie Grisham and Campaign Press Sec. Hogan Gidley alighted a separate van behind FLOTUS SUV.
It is a crisp and sunny 45 degrees in Milwaukee, WI.
At 11:18am CST FLOTUS motorcade departs for West Bend roughly 40 minutes northward. 


 October 31, 2020 13:18

 FLOTUS Pool Report #3 – Arrival at WI Campaign Event 
FLOTUS Pool Report #3 – Arrival at WI Campaign Event
FLOTUS motorcade arrived Kingsheart Farm at 12:07pm CST.
The ride to Kingsheart Farm was uneventful. Outside the farm Trump supporters stood with Trump flags, waving and cheering.
Venue is a semi open barn with string lights and music. The barn is packed. Roughly 250 people inside the barn, with overflow outside at the intersection/driveway. Everyone inside appear to be wearing masks and/face coverings.
PREVIEW OF FLOTUS SPEECH BELOW -EMBARGOED UNTIL DELIVERY.
Thank you Hogan!!!
Hello, Wisconsin! Good afternoon, West Bend!
Thank you for the warm welcome. And Happy Halloween!
I want to start by sharing some important news. Early this morning, our U.S. forces conducted a successful rescue operation in West Africa. The American citizen in question is now safe.
The President and I are especially grateful to the incredible warriors who led this operation and to the support of our international partners. Our military has never been stronger and our administration is fully committed to protecting the American people and supporting our men and women in uniform.
I'm excited to be with all of you here today in beautiful Wisconsin.
For families participating in Halloween festivities this year, I encourage you to visit the CDC website to read the latest safety guidelines.
As we approach the holiday season, we must all do our part to ensure we practice responsible, safe behaviors.
The upcoming holiday season is a time of family and togetherness. Yet, COVID-19 has brought feelings of loneliness and uncertainty for the future.
You are not alone. We started this challenging journey together and we will not stop working until we have found a vaccine or effective treatment for everyone.
COVID-19 is NOT a partisan issue. In a time when unity and leadership is vital, the democrats want to project feelings of fear and doubt, purely for political reasons.
Shame on anyone who casts doubt on the potential effectiveness of a vaccine just because it would come under my husband's leadership. The success of a vaccine will save millions of lives and we should all work towards that together as one nation.
This Administration has worked tirelessly to support families and people struggling financially during this pandemic while Democrats in Congress refuse to sign another stimulus package.
Such selfish, politically corrupt decisions are what separate the swamp politicians from President Trump and his Administration.
We are not the politicians who have worked in Washington for far too long. My husband is here to make a difference for you and your families. He has done so much already - imagine what he'll get done in four more years!!
Joe Biden said this will be a dark winter. That is not the statement of a leader. He wants to make us hide in fear in our basements rather than work bravely within our communities to find lasting solutions. His solution is to move backwards and to shut things down.
When my husband talks about the future, it is filled with continued possibility and forward thinking.
This Administration chooses to keep moving forward during this pandemic, not backward. By moving forward, we demonstrate a fundamental value of our nation, our ability to rise to any challenge and overcome any hurdle. It's what sets us apart from any other country in the world.
We have made great progress in our fight against COVID-19. This virus is one that has impacted every country around the globe. When COVID-19 invaded our country, we first had to learn what it was, how it spreads, and how to prevent it.
Instead of unifying our country and coming together in this time of need, the media and the democrats together - chose to attack the Administration.
It was Joe Biden who accused President Trump of "Xenophobic hysteria" for putting the American people first and closing travel from China and parts of Europe. Now they are saying we didn't do enough.
Our actions say otherwise. President Trump isn't a career politician like both Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. He is a President with proven results, not empty words and broken promises.
I watched Donald continue to work hard to keep people informed and calm, to protect our economy, and make hard and unpopular decisions to do all he could to keep us all safe.
Look at what we have overcome together. Look at the progress we've made to ensure our children continue to grow up in the safest and most prosperous nation.
We now have careful safety measures in place in every city and state. These safety measures allow our children to get back in the classroom. Our careful guidelines are not only keeping people safe, but allowing restaurants and businesses to reopen and people to start earning an income again. This President is focused on not just destroying the virus, but creating ways for people to safely start gathering with friends again. This is about mental health as much as it is about the physical well-being of people.
And while this year has been an unbelievable challenge for us all, it has also showcased our American strength and spirit. It is in times like these that we will look back and tell our grandchildren that through kindness and compassion, strength and determination, we were able to restore the promise of our future.
I want to take this moment to say thank you to the many amazing frontline workers who are with us today. Thank you for ALL that you are doing. Our Administration is behind you 100 percent and we will continue to make sure the country is equipped with all the medical supplies needed, and focus on getting a vaccine developed and distributed as safely and quickly as possible. I believe in our incredible doctors, nurses, medical professionals and scientists, and I believe we will overcome this invisible enemy.
After my husband became President, it was so disheartening to see the once proud integrity of American journalism become a political propaganda tool of swamp politicians.
For the last four years, the media has relentlessly attacked my husband. choosing gossip and anonymous sources over substance and the success of our nation. The media created a distorted picture of my husband and treated all his supporters with equal disdain. They continue to do so today - even though they've all benefited from his strong economy, national security and safer borders.
The media's promotion and use of divisive language has led to open disdain and hostility towards voters like you and me. "Deplorables", they called us. People, including our youth, have been harassed for wearing Trump apparel. Members of our staff have been thrown out of restaurants for serving their country. Many members of our staff receiving threatening mail at their home addresses - this is the tolerant left. And now, as the high-stakes of this election become clear, big tech companies have started politically censoring us.
While the President has been working hard for you, the democrats, supported by their partners in the media, have wasted American time and tax-payer dollars on the Russian hoax, then the sham impeachment. When will it stop?
Think about this: Joe Biden, Kamala Harris and the rest of the democrats and the media have spent almost the same amount of time and energy attempting to impeach my husband as we have spent fighting COVID-19.
Yet Joe Biden says he could do a better job leading our great nation. Apparently when you hide in a basement, you feel safe communicating your wishful thinking.
I think its obvious to the American people that after Joe Biden's decades in congress and eight years in the White House, he got nothing done. Why will this time be any different?
Meanwhile, here is what our Nation has seen in three and a half years of President Trump:
We have won wars and we have stayed out of new conflicts. We have killed two of the world's top terrorists. We have made historic peace deals in the Middle East. Our allies are now doing their fair share globally. Our economy soared and unemployment shrunk. We continue to support our military and law enforcement 100%. We have more opportunities in our workforce for women –especially working mothers. Our nation is respected again and our national security is stronger than ever.
We are a country of HOPE, not a country of fear or weakness.
We live in the greatest country in the world and we are set apart by our fundamental values. We believe in law and order. We believe everyone deserves justice. We support all our men and women in uniform. We will not defund our hard working police. We will make sure they are better trained than ever in order to keep our communities safe.
We cling to our respective faiths and we never underestimate the importance of family. We have an unending love for our country.
These are the pillars that our children should see reflected in our leaders. The democrats, with help from the media, have worked tirelessly to all but destroy faith in our traditional values.
Our children deserve to grow up in the best world possible. That starts with the best education and school choice. It is our duty as adults to equip our children with the best tools to succeed and live the American dream. It should be up to parents to choose the path that is best for their family. The freedom to pick how we want to raise our own children -and how we educate them- is an American citizen's right, not the government's choice.
It has been a great privilege to serve as the First Lady of the United States. I have focused my time on helping children through my initiative BE BEST. Over the last three and half years I have heard so many inspiring stories from people. all over the world. Children who showed kindness to others when they needed it most. Mothers who have overcome drug addiction. Nurses and doctors who save children every day through the amazing advancements in medicine. These are the stories that deserve to be shared.
It is love and optimism, not fear and lawlessness that keeps America great.
On Tuesday, the direction our country will take is in your hands. I ask that you join us in continuing to put America first. Together – we will continue building the brightest future for generations to come. Let us continue making America great again.
We've had three and a half years of winning. Let's have four more, Wisconsin.
Thank you and God Bless you and your families and God Bless the United States of America. 


 October 31, 2020 14:00

 FLOTUS Pool Report #4 – FLOTUS SPEECH in WI 
12:26pm CST Hogan Gidley addressed the crowd and introduced the First Lady.
On Biden's/Democratic Party policies: "Can't run this country on gumdrops, rainbows, and unicorn hair. It's a fantasy...." Emphasizes the shortcomings of a party that is trying to push a candidate who has been in politics for 47 years.
Gidley recounts the first time he met FLOTUS and proceeds to deliver some quotes that elicit energetic response from the audience; "every interaction I have had with her since. It is so clear. Melania Trump is truly one of the most kind, compassionate, caring person I know..... The press also relentlessly attacks the First Lady." But rather than focusing on the press' nastiness, she focuses on her work for the next generation. "And always tells her husband exactly what she thinks. I've been there, and I've seen it."
"Ya'll. America is just better off with Melania Trump in the White House."
First Lady enters the stage 1:39pm CST to Tom Jones' "She's a Lady"
To a crowd of about 250, FLOTUS began speaking at 1:40pm CST to chants from the crowd of "WE LOVE YOU."
FLOTUS wishes crowd Happy Halloween and celebrates good news out of Africa in a successful rescue mission.
This is her second solo campaign event on the trail for the re-election campaign.
Crowd was interactive and enthusiastic.
FLOTUS concluded her remarks at 12:59pm CST. 


 October 31, 2020 14:14

 FLOTUS Pool Report #5 – Departure from Campaign Event 1 
Pool was escorted back to motorcade after FLOTUS concluded her remarks.
At 1:08pm CST, motorcade is rolling.
Intersection outside venue a large crowd of Trump supporters waved the First Lady's motorcade adieu wielding flags and Trump signs.
Embedded in the crowd were two Biden/Harris signs and one battered looking Black Lives Matter sign. One of these sign holders used a megaphone to yell "I feel sorry for you!" at the First Lady's motorcade. The surrounding crowd only cheered and waved seeming to ignore the solitary dissenters. 


 October 31, 2020 15:07

 FLOTUS Pool Report #6 – Arrival Milwaukee Airport 
FLOTUS motorcade arrived at MKE at 1:51pm CST.
Motorcade drive back was smooth and uneventful.
Before boarding the plane, FLOTUS first walked over to lineup of local enforcement to thank them and posed for a group picture. FLOTUS boarded the plane at 1:58pm CST.
Next Stop: Wapwallopen, PA
ABOUT WAPWALLOPEN, PA:Wapwallopen is located in Luzerne County, the most populous county in northeastern PA. Walwallopen sits approximately 50 minutes' drive southwest of Scranton.
County Population (2014): 318,829
Median Income: $54k
Voting 2016: Luzerne County voted 58.6% for Trump, 38.5% for Clinton.
Luzerne voted for Obama/Biden in both previous elections but flipped for Trump over Hillary in 2016 voting Republican for the first time since 1988.
Luzerne is considered a bellweather county in that it has voted for the candidate that would take the state in every presidential election since 1932.
We shall be wheels up momentarily. 


 October 31, 2020 17:03

 FLOTUS Pool Report #7 – Arrival Wilkes-Barre-Scranton (AVP) Airport 
Executive Foxtrot One was wheels down at Wilkes-Barre-Scranton International Airport (AVP) at 4:44pm EST.
FLOTUS exited plane at 5:00pm EST.
It is a nippy and partly cloudy 46 degrees in Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, PA.
At 5:03pm EST FLOTUS motorcade departs for Whitewoods roughly 40 minutes southwest of AVP. 


 October 31, 2020 18:55

 FLOTUS Pool Report #8 – Arrival at PA Campaign Event 
FLOTUS motorcade arrived 5:50pm EST at Whitewoods venue.
Winding roads through rural, autumn colored PA - for the latter half of the drive, the two lane route was lined with Trump signs and supporters waving and cheering from their front yards and at junction intersections.
The Whitewoods venue was an open pavilion with about 250 under the roof and overflow on the mound outside the pavilion.
Standing crowd only - temperature dropped to the low forties. 


 October 31, 2020 19:05

 FLOTUS Pool Report #9 – FLOTUS SPEECH in PA 
5:52pm EST Hogan Gidley addressed the crowd and introduced the First Lady.
FLOTUS REMARKS:
Thank you Hogan and Hello Pennsylvania!
Happy Halloween! It is great to be back in beautiful Pennsylvania for the second time this week!When I came to Pennsylvania four years ago, we were just days out from the election. An election that defied the odds.
When you voted for President Trump, you voted for the people's President.
When you voted for my husband, you voted for the health and safety of the American people. You voted for better education for our children. You voted for secure borders.
You voted for a President who would keep our nation out of new conflicts and end long-lasting and draining wars. You voted for a stronger economy.
Under President Trump we have made historic peace deals in the Middle East. Our allies are now doing their fair share globally. Our military is stronger than ever.
And there are more opportunities for women – especially working mothers – in our workforce.
Despite what the media tries to tell you, Healthcare for every citizen remains a priority for him and as you've seen over these past years, he won't stop until he gets it done.
When you voted in 2016, our nation was in an unnecessarily slow recovery because of the policies of the failed Obama-Biden Administration. But under Donald's leadership, our economy soared and unemployment shrunk to a record low.
Donald fights to protect and support ALL of our people.
We have a law and order President. A President that fully supports our men and women in uniform – while others are calling to defund them. We have faith in our judges and in our legal system to rule justly. We respect our heritage and we condemn ALL hate.
We should always learn from our past - and it is more important than ever that we never forget it so we can move forward.
The United States is a shining city upon a hill. A place where the possibilities are endless and where families can grow and flourish.
A place where everyone is united in an unending love of country. Under this President, our American values and ideals are protected, cherished, and upheld.
In early 2020, our nation began feeling the effects of a global pandemic.
An invisible enemy invaded our beautiful nation and we found ourselves with a new virus that no one really understood. With the President's leadership, we quickly learned what it was, how it spreads, and ways to mitigate it.
I watched Donald work very hard to keep people informed and calm, to protect our economy and make difficult and unpopular decisions in order to keep us all safe.
In a time when our nation needed to come together, the democrats and media chose to attack and create chaos and confusion. With very little information they created their own narrative and stoked fear. It was not only dishonest - it was a disservice to the very people they claim to keep informed.
It was Joe Biden who accused President Trump of "Xenophobic hysteria" for putting the American people first and closing travel from China and parts of Europe. Now he is saying we didn't do enough.
But my husband's actions prove otherwise.
The Trump Administration worked tirelessly to support families struggling financially during this pandemic.
It was the Democrats in Congress who refused to sign the last stimulus package - they have held the American people financially hostage in the name of politics.
COVID-19 is NOT a partisan issue. Yet, the democrats have made it one of the most controversial topics in today's news.
Democrats choose to project fear and doubt throughout our country purely for political ends. It is shameful.
Joe Biden says this will be a dark winter.
His solution is to move backwards, to shut things down, to scare the people of our country. That is not leadership, it is trying to scare people for votes His version of a dark winter is not the America I know.
Our shining city upon a hill is one of HOPE. We are not a country of fear or weakness.
We have a fearless leader who shows that every single day.
Under President Trump we are choosing to move this country FORWARD. You deserve a President with proven results, not a career politician with empty words and broken promises.
Look at what we have overcome together.
Look at the progress we've made to ensure our children continue to grow up in the safest and most prosperous nation.
We now have careful safety measures in place in several cities and states. These safety measures allow children to get back in the classroom.
Our careful guidelines are not only keeping people safe, but allowing restaurants and businesses to reopen and people to start earning an income again. This President is focused not only on destroying the virus, but creating ways for people to safely start gathering with friends again. This is about mental health as much as it is about the physical well-being of people.
America's response to COVID-19 is seen by our strength and through our spirit. I want to thank our amazing frontline workers for ALL you are doing. It is in times like these that we will look back and tell our grandchildren that through kindness and compassion, strength and determination, we were able to restore the promise of our future.
Our Administration is dedicated to ensuring that our nation is equipped with all the medical supplies needed, and getting a vaccine developed and distributed as safely and quickly as possible.
I believe in our incredible doctors, nurses, medical professionals and scientists.
Because of our amazing medical capabilities and resources – we are in the process of developing powerful therapeutics and a vaccine.
As I said before, there is no room to play politics on the topic of our nations health. If you are not supporting the safe production of a vaccine, you are not supporting the health and safety of the American people.
Shame on anyone who casts doubt on the effectiveness of a vaccine just because it would come under my husband's leadership. The success of a vaccine will save millions of lives.
Such selfish, politically corrupt decisions like these are what separate the swamp politicians from President Trump.
Do not forget what the democrats chose to focus on when COVID-19 first came into our country.
While the President was taking decisive actions to keep the American people safe, the democrats were wasting American tax-payer dollars on a sham impeachment.
Our children are watching and learning about politics in our country, and they deserve a better display of political responsibility and respect for our sacred institutions.
But moving backwards seems to be the only direction democrats know how to go.
You can look at Joe Biden's many decades as an elected politician and determine whether you want to move backwards with him.
And while journalists, who have now become the political propaganda tool of swamp politicians and the left, choose to focus only on the negative,we have chosen to focus on the American people and the future.
When the media and democrats were focusing on overturning the 2016 election, Donald Trump was bringing jobs back to the American people.
When the media and democrats were focused on overturning the 2016 election,Donald Trump passed record-setting tax cuts and regulations, replaced NAFTA with a new UMCA agreement, and achieved energy independence.
While the media and democrats were focused on overturning the 2016 election, Donald Trump was taking care of our veterans.He was launching Space Force, destroying global terrorists and securing our borders.
And now even big tech companies are politically censoring us - but like my husband, we cannot give up.
This is a President who is here with one purpose, serving the American people.
Donald loves this country and he sees potential in everyone he meets, no matter their gender, race, religion, or sexual orientation. Donald loves helping people and he will fight for you every single day he is in office for four more years! My husband is here to make a difference for YOU.
It has been a great honor to serve as First Lady of this incredible country. Over the last few years, I have spent my time focused on children. They are the key to a successful future. My initiative, BE BEST, is dedicated to helping children become their very best selves.
Through BE BEST, I have witnessed incredible moments of compassion and kindness from people all over this great nation and the world. There are so many good things happening every day in ways small and large - we must not lose sight of that in the midst of all this political negativity.
The Trump Administration is one that chooses to focus on the good And what it can do for you, hardworking Americans. Donald is working hard for the backbone of our society – our hard-working American families.
On Tuesday, I am asking that you continue to put your trust in President Trump.
We've had 3.5 years of winning. Let's have another four. Together, we will continue making America Great Again.
Thank you and may God Bless you and your families and God Bless the United States of America.
FLOTUS concluded her remarks at 6:17pm EST.
POOL was quickly escorted to motorcade upon FLOTUS's conclusions.
Motorcade was moving by 6:24pm EST headed back for AVP. 


 October 31, 2020 19:15

 FLOTUS Pool Report #10 – Arrival AVP Airport 
FLOTUS motorcade arrived at AVP at 7:05pm EST.
FLOTUS boarded the plane at 7:07pm EST.
Wheels up and JBA bound shortly. 


 October 31, 2020 20:17

 FLOTUS Pool Report #11 – Arrival JBA 
Executive Foxtrot One was wheels up from PA AVP at 7:20pm EST, wheels down at JBA 7:58pm EST.
Campaign Press Secretary Hogan Gidley visited press cabin to chat for a brief time shortly before descent.
FLOTUS disembarked plane 8:14pm EST.
By 8:16pm motorcade was enroute to the White House. 


 October 31, 2020 20:54

 FLOTUS Pool Report #12 – Arrival at White House 
Motorcade returned to White House 8:37pm EST to a significantly more temperate Washington DC.
Goodnight one and all - here's to a Spoiky Halloween and what's left of it. 




Pool Reports by Gabriella Orr, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




 October 31, 2020 11:07

 Out-of-town pool no. 1 
?Good morning from Joint Base Andrews. Happy Halloween. POTUS spoke briefly to pool:
Q: Where will you be on election night?
"I'll be perhaps between the White House and the hotel" on election night. "I guess they placed a limit yesterday on the hotel. They did that yesterday in Minnesota. Just ridiculous. Thousands and thousands of people were disenfranchised. They traveled for many miles to be there."
"We're spending the day in Pennsylvania. And I think we're doing extremely well with the votes. It's going to be a very interesting three days. It's going to be a very interesting Tuesday."
"A big red wave has formed. We're doing very well."
Motorcade arrived at 11 a.m. carrying POTUS and today's pool crew. It is sunny and 45°, about the same weather for today's festivities in Pennsylvania.
Pool spotted Bill Stepien, Stephen Miller, Hope Hicks, Kayleigh McEnany boarding the plane.
We will be wheels up shortly.
NOTE: The White House added a fourth stop to the schedule last night. POTUS now has four Pennsylvania rallies today in Newton, Reading, Butler and Montoursville.
Get 


 October 31, 2020 12:04

 Out-of-town pool no. 2 
?Air Force One was wheels down at Trenton-Mercer Airport at 11:44 a.m. after a short and uneventful flight. Pool also spotted Dan Scavino on the plane.
We are waiting for POTUS to deplane and then have a short ride to the rally site in Newton, Pa. 


 October 31, 2020 12:10

 Out of town pool no. 3 — Rolling to rally 
?POTUS deplaned at 12:08 p.m. He gave a thumbs up to pool before climbing into the beast.
Motorcade is rolling at 12:10 p.m. 


 October 31, 2020 12:49

 Out-of-town pool no. 4 – Arrival at first rally 
?Motorcade pulled into Keith House-Washington's Headquarters at 12:38 p.m. following a beautiful drive through some Pennsylvania country roads. Throngs of Trump supporters lined the motorcade route with an assortment of homemade and after-market signs.
"Hate news has no home here."
"No more bulls---."
"Keep your maximum attitude."
There were pockets of Biden-Harris supporters as well, along with a giant banner hung between two oak trees that read: "Get off your [donkey image] and vote for Democrats."
POTUS took the stage here at 12:48 p.m. The rally is located in a field, a very muddy one, and the crowd size is smaller than other recent campaign stops. Remarks will be carried live, but your pooler will send along color as needed. 


 October 31, 2020 14:23

 Out-of-town pool no. 5 — Back to airport 
?POTUS wrapped his remarks at 2:15 p.m., with his speech coming in right around 1hr25min.
The sun disappeared about halfway through the rally, creating a very chilly temperature on the ground here. It appears Jared Kushner is also on the trip with us. POTUS thanked him during his remarks.
Motorcade is rolling back to the airport at 2:22 p.m. Next stop: Reading, Pa. 


 October 31, 2020 15:33

 Out-of-town no. 6 — Taking off 
Motorcade arrived back at the airport at 2:45 p.m. POTUS gave a quick wave to pool before boarding.
Wheels up shortly for Reading. 


 October 31, 2020 15:36

 Out-of-town pool no. 7 — Arrival in reading 
Air Force One was wheels down at Reading Regional Airport at 3:19 p.m. after a very short flight from Newton.
The crowd here is much larger compared to his first rally of the day. It is also much colder.
With the presidential aircraft parked behind him, POTUS is expected to take the stage soon. His remarks will be carried live. 


 October 31, 2020

[APP Note: Report #8 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 October 31, 2020

[APP Note: Report #9 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 October 31, 2020 17:59

 Out-of-town pool no. 10 — Butler bound & Potus comments 
?At 5:42 p.m., Air Force One was wheels down at Pittsburgh International Airport. POTUS deplaned at 5:57 p.m. wearing a coat and leather gloves. He was greeted on the tarmac by former Notre Dame football coach Lou Holtz.
POTUS spoke for about a minute.
"Lou Holtz is a friend of mine and it's so nice for him to be here. He's getting the presidential medal of freedom. He's a very inspiring guy."
"I hear we're doing great in Florida, great in Ohio. Doing really well in Florida, doing great in Texas."
"Iowa's doing really great. We're going tomorrow but we're doing really good."
We have a 10 minute Osprey ride to Butler, Pa. for his third rally of the day. 


 October 31, 2020 18:27

 Out-of-town pool no. 11 — Butler Arrival 
?Ospreys were wheels down in Butler at 6:14 p.m. The crowd here is POTUS' largest audience today. Just a massive sea of red MAGA hats with a packed overflow area as well.
Pool is being treated to a beautiful sunset as POTUS takes the stage here at 6:27 p.m. It makes the temperature slightly more bearable.
Remarks will be streamed live, but I will send along color as per usual. 


 October 31, 2020 19:46

 Out-of-town pool no. 12 — Leaving rally 
?POTUS finished speaking at 7:26 p.m. He clapped along to YMCA and gave the audience a round of thumbs up before exiting the stage at 7:28 p.m.
We are wheels up shortly for the Pittsburgh airport. 


 October 31, 2020 20:02

 Out-of-town pool no. 13 — Arrival 
?Ospreys touched down at 7:47 p.m. after a short flight back to the Pittsburgh airport. Marine One landed at 7:53 p.m. and POTUS was aboard Air Force One by 8:01 p.m. after a quick wave to pool.
We are wheels up shortly for his fourth and final rally today in Montoursville, Pa. 


 October 31, 2020 21:04

 Out-of-town pool no. 14 — Rally arrival 
?Air Force One was wheels down at 8:46 p.m. after an uneventful flight from Pittsburgh. Pool was loaded into motorcade vans before we could see POTUS deplane.
It is bitter cold here. Attendees are bundled up, some are wrapped in blankets. The crowd appears smaller than the last rally in Butler, but still of considerable size given the temperature outside.
"This is one hell of a crowd," POTUS said after he took the stage at 9:04 p.m. "We saved the best for last."
The rally here in Montoursville will be televised. 


 October 31, 2020 22:03

 Out-of-town pool no. 15 — Leaving PA 
?POTUS finished speaking at 9:55 p.m.
He repeatedly commented on how "freezing" it was, mentioned the latest Des Moines Register poll out of Iowa that shows him ahead and said he would be back to Pennsylvania before the Nov. 3 election. For the third time today, his campaign aired a video during the rally that highlighted Joe Biden's stance on fracking and a montage of his campaign gaffes.
Motorcade left the rally site at 10 p.m. for a 90-second drive back to the plane. Your pooler did not see POTUS board the plane.
Wheels up for shortly for Washington. 


 October 31, 2020 23:00

 Out-of-town pool no. 16 — JBA 
?Air Force One was wheels down at Andrews at 10:43 p.m. POTUS deplaned at 10:57 p.m. with a wave to the pool before climbing into the beast
Motorcade is rolling back to the White House at 10:59 p.m. 


 October 31, 2020 23:24

 Out-of-town pool no. 17 
?Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 11:23 p.m. Your pooler did not see POTUS enter the residence.
Handing it off to in-town pool. Have a good night y'all. 


 October 31, 2020 23:27

 Out-of-town pool no. 18 — Lid 
?Just kidding. I am the in-town pooler now. We have a travel/photo lid at 11:26 p.m. 



  