
    While Joe Biden failed to stand up to Russia during his 47 years in office, President Trump has taken tougher action against Russia than any past Administration.
President Trump and his administration have been tougher on Russia than any past administration.


President Obama's Secretary of Defense Robert Gates says it's "true" that President Trump's administration has been the toughest on Russia.

President Trump has repeatedly pushed back against Russian attempts to threaten American institutions, including imposing sanctions on hundreds of individuals and entities suspected of attempted election interference.

To hold Russia accountable for their repeated violations, President Trump withdrew the United States from both the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty and Open Skies Treaty.

The Trump Administration imposed harsh penalties in response to Russia's evasion of sanctions against North Korea, Syria, Iran, and Venezuela.

President Trump placed strong sanctions on the Nord Stream 2 pipeline, warning Germany and other nations about the dangers of relying on Russian energy.

Joe Biden failed to stand up to Russia during his forty-even years in Washington.


Before the 2003 invasion of Iraq, Biden tried to buy Putin's support for the war by promising him that profits from seized Iraqi oil would go to Russia.

Within weeks of becoming Vice President in 2009, Biden suggested a reset with Russia and a closer relationship.

In 2011, Biden strongly supported Russia's bid to join the World Trade Organization.

When President Obama traded "flexibility" on missile defense for Russia's help in winning the 2012 election, Biden defended it.

In 2012, Biden mocked the idea that "Russia is still our major adversary," saying Russia was "working closely with us." 

In 2013, Obama and Biden failed to enforce their "red line" in Syria, which ultimately emboldened Russia.

When Russia invaded Crimea in 2014, Obama and Biden failed to provide lethal aid to Ukraine

  