
    The peaceful power of an American election is something unique. Unique in history. Unique is most of the world. The wealthy only have the same vote and voice as the rest of us. And we shield this system with laws and rules to protect its integrity, because, in a democracy, that integrity is everything.
This is why the revelations of the last few days about the Clinton Administration are so disturbing-because these abuses concern the election process itself.
We read in the Washington Post that an Indonesian gardener, briefly in the United States, gave nearly a half million dollars to the Democratic National Committee in the current election cycle-money used to help the Clinton re-election effort. It turns out that this gardener is connected to a wealthy Indonesian banking syndicate with ties to that nation's military dictatorship. And we have also discovered that this Indonesian syndicate has had close ties to Bill Clinton since he was governor of Arkansas. We learn of Mr. Gandhi, who gave President Clinton and award — plus $300,000 contribution to the Democratic party.
We read in the Wall Street Journal that at a recent Democratic fundraiser in California attended by Vice President Gore--illegal campaign contributions were funneled through false donors. In one case, a woman who happened to be visiting the Buddhist temple where the fundraiser was held was given $5,000 in small bills, and told to write a check to the Democratic National Committee. Believe me, I'm not making this up. And we have found that the event was organized by a prominent Democratic fundraiser who was previously a top executive for the same Indonesian billionaire.
We read in the Los Angeles Times about another illegal contribution lined up by the same Democratic fundraiser, this time from a South Korean company, a contribution so blatantly unlawful that the Democratic Party was forced to return it once the whistle was blown. And now, apparently, the head of the company has disappeared into thin air.
Four things are clear from all of this:
First, these efforts were designed to sidestep American campaign laws.
Second, huge sum's of money were involved--enough to substantially influence an American election. In fact, some of the negative ads you've probably been hearing about me have probably been paid for with some of this foreign money.
Third, some of these actions were probably illegal.
Fourth, this money bought access and influence to top levels of American government. The Head of the South Korean company demanded a meeting with the President before he made his illegal donation. And he got one. The President also met with the Indonesian tycoon on a state visit to Asia in November of 1994. Current and former employees of this billionaire were appointed to U.S. government positions at the Commerce Department and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative.
These things, simply stated, are inconsistent with the American tradition. In other countries, such habits of corruption are common. But they must never be allowed to change and distort our political system. We do not import corruption from other nations, we export our vision of democracy to the rest of the world.
I've been asked how the public ethics of leaders can affect our daily lives. And here the case is especially clear. We cannot allow the political influence of any American to be outweighed by foreign money. In an American election, the voice of a single American citizen must speak louder than the entire world.
I have been raising these issues of public ethics for the past several days, including during this week's debate. Bill Clinton has refused to explain himself or his record. Some of the media have called his performance restrained and dignified. In fact, it was evasive. There is nothing presidential about undermining the integrity and respect of the presidency itself.
The ethical vacuum at the heart of this administration has been filled by foreign political money. They have compromised the respect of Americans for their most basic institutions.
Campaign finance can be complicated, and nobody's perfect. We all make mistakes. But this Clinton foreign money scandal is not politics as usual. Taken together, these actions are a singular and serious betrayal of the public trust. We cannot accept that this kind of activity is normal or permissible in America without diminishing the ideals of America itself.
The President's silence on these issues of public trust is a form of admission. And our silence would be a form of permission. But that is permission we must never give. Public conduct must have public consequences.
It is time for the President to break his silence.
This is Bob Dole. Thanks for listening.
  