
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

For the past 33 years during Thanksgiving week, the American people have observed National Farm-City Week to express gratitude for the bounty with which God has blessed our land and to recognize the achievements of the farmers, rural townspeople, and city residents who make our Nation's agricultural production and distribution system so successful. Truly this cooperation between rural and city dwellers for mutual benefit helps ensure our country's well-being.
America's farmers have provided food and fiber to sustain our people throughout decade after decade of progress. Farmers' productivity has increased steadily, thanks largely to their initiative in supporting and adopting the methods and materials developed by scientific research. Yield per acre has grown tremendously, with the result that American farmers are able not only to meet the Nation's basic needs for foodstuffs, but also to produce agricultural goods for export and for a wide variety of specialty markets here in the United States and around the world. American agriculture, and the many service industries that depend upon it in cities and towns and along all the routes in between, is a story of extraordinary labor creating extraordinary abundance. At this time of year, it is only fitting that all Americans should offer some special sign of thanks to those who grow, harvest, and bring to our Nation's tables the fruits of sun, seed, and soil.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of November 20 through November 26, 1987, as National Farm-City Week. I call upon all Americans, in rural areas and cities alike, to join in recognizing the accomplishments of our productive farmers and of our urban residents, who cooperate to create abundance, wealth, and strength for our Nation.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  