
    
  Jewish Telegraphic Agency

October 24, 2007
By Beth Young
Rudy Giuliani is emerging … as the clear favorite of the party's top Jewish activists.
The former New York City mayor significantly outpaced fellow GOP hopefuls John McCain and Mitt Romney in raising money from the 60 board members of the Republican Jewish Coalition. Giuliani also received the most applause last week at the RJC's candidates forum. …
Some GOP activists say Giuliani's credentials as a two-time mayor of New York and staunch defender of Israel makes him an ideal choice …
"I think a lot of New Yorkers like his tough stand on terrorism and his tough stance with regard to Iran getting nukes," said Morrie Amitay, a former executive director of AIPAC and now a vice president at the Jewish Institute for National Security Affairs.
According to campaign contribution reports, Giuliani has raised $58,750 from the leaders of the nation's foremost Republican Jewish organization, compared to $35,900 for McCain and $31,200 for Romney. No other GOP candidate has received financial contributions from RJC board members.
Seventeen of the 60 board members gave Giuliani the maximum $4,600 donation allowed for the primary and general election. …
Judging from the applause and interviews at the end of the daylong RJC forum last week, rank-and-file members of the group appeared to give Giuliani the edge.
The applause was especially strong when Giuliani reminded Jewish donors of his proven ability to win over voters from both parties.
"I'm the one who can be a coast-to-coast candidate," he said.
His tough talk on Iran also earned long applause.
"I guarantee you," he said, "we will never find out what they will do with nuclear weapons because they're not going to get them."
One audience member, Jeremy Kohn, praised Giuliani for his role in returning a $10 million charitable donation to Saudi Prince Alwaleed bin Talal. After touring Ground Zero shortly after the attacks, the prince drew Giuliani's ire by saying that America's support of the State of Israel led to the terrorist strikes.
Giuliani "was the most decisive and toughest. He's not afraid to offend people. He's not afraid to stand up to them," Kohn said. …
Lynn Newport of Atlanta also decided after the event to back Giuliani, calling him "my favorite."
"He spoke his mind," Newport said. "I think he had an accurate understanding of the problems we face. He was decisive."
To read the entire article, please visit here
  