
    Robert L. Crandall, of Texas, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years, vice Michael S. Dukakis, term expired.
Michael D. Gallagher, of Washington, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information, vice Nancy Victory, resigned.
Susan Johnson Grant, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy, vice Bruce Marshall Carnes, resigned.
Virginia E. Hopkins, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice Edwin L. Nelson, deceased.
Stuart Ishimaru, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2007, vice Paul M. Igasaki, term expired.
Ricardo S. Martinez, of Washington, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Washington, vice an additional position in accordance with 28 U.S.C. 133(b)(1).
Drew R. McCoy, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term of six years, vice Lance Banning.
Robert N. McFarland, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Information and Technology), vice John A. Gauss, resigned.
Jon R. Purnell, of Massachusetts, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Thomas Thomas Riley, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco.
Margaret Scobey, of Tennessee, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Syrian Arab Republic.
Louis S. Thompson, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years, vice John Robert Smith, term expired.
Margaret DeBardeleben Tutwiler, of Alabama, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, vice Charlotte L. Beers, resigned.
Gary Lee Visscher, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years, vice Isadore Rosenthal, term expiring.
  