
    BURLINGTON, Vt. — U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders' raised $26.2 million during the third quarter of this year – all of it for use in primaries and caucuses – in a grassroots presidential campaign that has drawn 1.3 million small donations since it began.
The average donation was $30 apiece.
The campaign closed the books at the end of the Sept. 30 reporting period with almost $27.1 million in the bank after spending about $11.3 million, according to a report filed on Thursday with the Federal Election Commission.
Since his White House bid was launched last April 30, Sanders has banked a total of about $41.4 million, according to the report.
"What is really remarkable is the breadth of support for Bernie from so many people responding to his call for a political revolution to stand up for the middle class and take on the billionaire class," said Jeff Weaver, the campaign manager.
"Other campaigns are bankrolled by big donors who have given so much even under our current corrupt political system they can't legally give any more," Weaver added. "Bernie's big base of small donors may give again and again. What is clear now is that this campaign to transform America will have the resources to fight all the way to the convention."
Only 270 of Sanders' 680,959 donors gave the maximum $2,700 allowed.
More than 77 percent of the contributions – $20.2 million this quarter and $30.7 million altogether – came from individuals who gave less than $200.
And in a remarkable turn of events, there has been a record surge in online donations this week. More than 97,800 contributions poured in totaling some $3.2 million since Tuesday, when the first Democratic debate was held in Las Vegas, through mid-afternoon on Thursday. The average donation $32.28.
Also on the day after the debate, Sanders attracted 1,100 people to a $25-per-person fundraiser and rally on Wednesday in Southern California. It was only the eighth traditional fundraiser of his campaign. A ninth event was held that same evening with tickets going for $250 and up.
To read the cover pages for the FEC report, click here.
  