
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator John McCain's presidential campaign today released its latest television ad, entitled "Obama Praising McCain." The ad highlights Barack Obama's past praise for John McCain on the issue of confronting global climate change. As he said numerous times during the first debate, Barack Obama often believes John McCain is right. The ad will air in key states. 
VIEW THE TELEVISION AD HERE: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqaoSzSGFNw 
Script For "Obama Praising McCain" (TV :30) 
ANNCR: The truth on global warming: 
BARACK OBAMA: The right approach begins with the proposal put forward by Senator Lieberman and Senator McCain.
The Lieberman-McCain bill establishes limits for greenhouse gas emissions. It's a framework that's not only good for the environment, it's also good for business.
I want to thank Senator Lieberman, as well as Senator McCain, for the outstanding leadership that they've shown. 
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message. 
AD FACTS: Script For "Obama Praising McCain" (TV :30) 
ANNCR: The truth on global warming: BARACK OBAMA: The right approach begins with the proposal put forward by Senator Lieberman and Senator McCain. The Lieberman-McCain bill establishes limits for greenhouse gas emissions. It's a framework that's not only good for the environment, it's also good for business. I want to thank Senator Lieberman, as well as Senator McCain, for the outstanding leadership that they've shown. JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message.

Senator Barack Obama (D-IL): "Since coming to Washington, I've believed that the right approach begins with the proposal put forward by Senator Lieberman and Senator McCain, a proposal they've been pushing for years, and I thank them again for their leadership on this issue. The Lieberman-McCain Bill establishes limits for greenhouse gas emissions well into the 21st century. To remain below these limits, the bill encourages the market to determine how best to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, rewarding cost effective approaches using a system of tradable allowances." (Sen. Barack Obama, Hearing, Committee On Environment and Public Works, U.S. Senate, 1/30/07)

  