
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 19
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Mayflower Hotel.
October 20
In the morning, the President traveled to Newark, NJ. In the afternoon, he traveled to Teaneck, NJ, and Tarrytown, NY.
In the evening, the President attended a Presidential Unity Fund celebration at a private residence. Later, he attended a Democratic National Committee reception at the Sheraton New York Hotel in New York City. The President then traveled to Cleveland, OH, arriving after midnight.
October 21
In the afternoon, the President attended a luncheon for the Ohio Coordinated Campaign at Classics Restaurant in Cleveland, OH. He then traveled to Detroit, MI.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee reception for Senator Carl Levin and a dinner for the Michigan Coordinated Campaign at the Fox Theater.
October 22
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Miami, FL. In the evening, he attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Biltmore Hotel.
October 23
In the morning, the President attended a reception for the General Election Legal and Compliance Fund at the Biltmore Hotel in Miami. He then traveled to Daytona Beach, FL. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President attended Presidential Unity
Fund celebrations at the Sheraton Washington Hotel and at a private residence in McLean, VA.
The President declared an emergency in Massachusetts and ordered Federal funds to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by extreme weather conditions and flooding on October 20 and continuing.
The President declared an emergency in California and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe fires beginning on October 21.
October 24
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Leah Rabin, widow of slain Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel, to mark the first anniversary of the Prime Minister's death according to the Jewish lunar calendar. Later in the morning, the President traveled to Birmingham, AL. In the afternoon, he traveled to Lake Charles, LA. In the evening, he traveled to New Orleans, LA.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dave Nolan Brown to the National Council on Disability.
The President declared an emergency in Maine and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms, heavy rains, high winds, and inland and coastal flooding on October 20 and continuing.
October 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA. In the evening, he traveled to Macon, GA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in Massachusetts and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by extreme weather conditions and flooding on October 20 and continuing.
  