
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted October 10
C.E. Abramson,
of Montana, to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2000, vice Barbara J.H. Taylor, term expired.
Walter Anderson,
of New York, to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science for a term expiring July 19, 2000, vice Norman Kelinson, term expired.
LaVeeda Morgan Battle,
of Alabama, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 1998 (reappointment).
John N. Erlenborn,
of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 1998, vice John G. Brooks, term expired.
David Finn,
of New York, to be a member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2000, vice Billie Davis Gaines, term expired.
Joseph H. Gale,
of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term expiring 15 years after he takes office, vice Edna Gaynell Parker, resigned.
Ernest G. Green,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 22, 2001 (reappointment).
Submitted October 11
P. Michael Duffy,
of South Carolina, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice Matthew J. Perry, Jr., retired.
Sue E. Myerscough,
of Illinois, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of Illinois, vice Harold A. Baker, retired.
Jed S. Rakoff,
of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice David N. Edelstein, retired.
William P. Foster,
of Florida, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2000, vice Roy M. Goodman, term expired.
Lowell Lee Junkins,
of Iowa, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, vice Edward Charles Williamson.
Submitted October 13
David P. Rawson,
of Michigan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mali.
Gerald Wesley Scott,
of Oklahoma, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of The Gambia.
Robert E. Gribbin III,
of Alabama, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Rwanda.
Ralph R. Johnson,
of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Slovak Republic.
  