
    ...John and I will adopt an all-of-the-above approach to meet America's great energy challenges, and that means harnessing alternative sources like wind and solar and geothermal and biomass. And we'll develop clean coal technology, and we will safely drill for the billions of barrels of oil that we have underground, including  offshore resources.
Now, we need to be circulating those dollars here in the United States of America creating jobs for all of you
For the sake of our nation, security, and our prosperity, we need American energy resources brought to you by American ingenuity and produced by American workers...
...I want you to know that what John McCain and I believe in is what Ronald Reagan believed in. We believe in the forward movement of freedom and not the constant expansion of government. And we believe -- we believe that it's time to break the highest and hardest glass ceiling in America. And we believe that the best of America is not all gathered in Washington, D.C., but it is here. It is in the kindness and the goodness and the courage of everyday, hard-working Americans. The women who work the night shifts in our factories and they raise our children and they teach our children and they get up every day and keep the American dream alive. We believe that the best of America is found in those of you who you grow our food, you run our factories, you fight our wars, you protect all of us, and you protect the virtues of freedom. And you have done that, and we thank you for that.
We do believe -- we believe in the promise of this great country and in all of the opportunities that we wish for ourselves and for our sons and for our daughters. And we believe that America is not the problem, America is the solution.
And I am so thankful that we have someone ready and worthy to lead it, somebody who inspires us with heroic and trustworthy deeds instead of just words.
So if you believe in what we believe in, and if you're ready to shake Washington up, ... if you're ready to get our economy back on the right track and if you're ready to win these wars and if you're ready to break one glass ceiling once and for all, then John McCain and I, we are asking for your vote.
  