
    Kenneth J. Braithwaite of Pennsylvania to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Norway. Mr. Braithwaite, a distinguished 27-year veteran of the U.S. Navy and U.S. Navy Reserve, currently serves as Group Senior Vice President for Vizient, a healthcare strategy and performance improvement company. He completed his military service in 2011 as the Navy's Vice Chief of Information. Immediately prior, he served as Commanding Officer, Joint Public Affairs Expeditionary Support Element (Reserve), Joint Forces Command. In that role, he deployed to Pakistan as the overall Director of Strategic Communications supporting work of the American Embassy. Earlier, Mr. Braithwaite served as Commanding Officer, Navy Combat Camera deployed in combat operations to Iraq. He also served as Executive Director, Delaware Valley Healthcare Council; Vice President, Government Affairs, Ascension Health and State Director to U.S. Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA). Mr. Braithwaite received his B.S degree from the U.S. Naval Academy, his pilot wings as a Naval Aviator and an M.G.A from the University of Pennsylvania.
-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Nominate the Following Individuals to be Members of the Federal Trade Commission
Rohit Chopra of New York, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring September 25, 2019. Mr. Chopra is currently a Senior Fellow at the Consumer Federation of America, where he focuses on consumer protection issues facing young people and military families. From 2010-2015, he served at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau as Assistant Director, where he oversaw the agency's work on student financial services issues. The Secretary of the Treasury also appointed him as the agency's student loan ombudsman. In 2016, Mr. Chopra served as Special Adviser to the Secretary of Education. Prior to his government service, he was an associate at McKinsey & Company, where he served clients in the financial services and consumer technology sectors. Mr. Chopra holds a bachelor's degree from Harvard University and a master's in business administration from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He was also the recipient of a Fulbright Fellowship. He resides in New York.
Joseph Simons of Virginia, for a seven-year term beginning September 26, 2017, and upon confirmation designate chair. Mr. Simons is currently a partner and co-chair of the Antitrust Group at the law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP. He was previously in charge of antitrust enforcement at the Federal Trade Commission, serving as Director of the Bureau of Competition from 2001 until 2003. Among his accomplishments, Mr. Simons was responsible for overseeing the re-invigoration of the FTC's non-merger enforcement program. Under his leadership, the Bureau initiated over 100 investigations and produced more non-merger enforcement actions in one year than in any other year in the prior two decades or since. Mr. Simons is also a co-developer of "Critical Loss Analysis," a technique for market definition that has been incorporated into the Department of Justice and FTC Merger Guidelines, as well as applied in numerous court decisions. Mr. Simons received his A.B. in Economics and History from Cornell University in 1980 and his J.D., cum laude, from Georgetown University Law Center in 1983.
-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Patricia Greene to the Department of Labor
Patricia G. Greene of Texas to be the Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor. Dr. Greene is a former professor of entrepreneurship and the Paul T. Babson Distinguished Professor of Entrepreneurial Studies at Babson College. She was the founding National Academic Director for the Goldman Sachs 10,000 Small Businesses initiative and is currently the global academic director to the 10,000 Women program. For 10,000 Small Businesses, she led the Babson team for the design of the educational and advising program, training for new sites, the management of the national alumni program, and the supervision of the measurement and evaluation system. Dr. Greene is a former Federal appointee to the national advisory board for the SBA's Small Business Development Centers. She completed terms on the National Science Foundation Small Business Innovation Research/Small Business Technology Transfer Advisory Committee, the board chair of the Center for Women's Business Research, and as co-chair of the steering committee for the Entrepreneurship Affinity Group of the AACSB. Ms. Greene is the author, co-author, or co-editor of numerous books and articles. Ms. Greene earned her Ph.D. from the University of Texas at Austin, her M.B.A. from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and her B.S. from the Pennsylvania State University.
  