
    "We have to reject the socialist model that rations care, restricts access, slashes quality, and forces patients onto endless waitlists. Instead, we believe in freedom. We believe in choice. We believe in the highest standard of care in the world — anywhere in the world." --President Donald. J. Trump
RESISTING THE LIES OF SOCIALIZED MEDICINE: President Donald J. Trump will never allow the left's radical Medicare-for-All to destroy the American healthcare system.

The radical far left continues to push a socialist takeover of our healthcare system and lie to the American people about the devastating impact it would have.
Congressional Democrats want to eliminate private health insurance, taking away your healthcare plans and doctors.
Congressional Democrats want to control every aspect of your health decisions, giving power to the federal government to decide who lives and who dies.
Since his inauguration, President Trump and his Administration have rejected calls for government controlled healthcare and vowed to never allow socialized medicine in America.

REPEATING THE LIES OF OBAMACARE: The American people were lied to about Obamacare and now the far left is lying about their radical government healthcare takeover, Medicare-for-All.

Over and over, Americans were told they would be able to keep their preferred healthcare plans and doctors under Obamacare.

President Obama: "If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor. If you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan."
The fact is Americans were lied to as Obamacare caused millions of Americans to lose their healthcare coverage and physicians.


Americans were promised that Obamacare would reduce healthcare premiums by $2,500.

President Obama: "We'll lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year...by the end of my first term as president."
The truth was that healthcare insurance premiums were about to skyrocket, doubling between 2013 and 2017.


Now, Congressional Democrats are pushing a radical Medicare-for-All proposal that will eliminate private insurance, remove choice, and raise costs.

They insist it is affordable when in reality the price tag Americans will pay for Medicare-for-All would reach $32 trillion, according to experts.



ENDANGERING OUR SENIORS: Medicare-for-All would rob millions of seniors of their current benefits, restrict them from purchasing supplemental insurance, and put their lives at risk.

Congressional Democrats' Medicare-for-All plan would effectively end Medicare and take away the Medicare Advantage plans enjoyed by millions of seniors.

Their plan would force 24 million seniors to lose their Medicare Advantage coverage.
Seniors' option to purchase private supplemental coverage will disappear as private insurance is phased out.


Their plan would subject the elderly to long waiting times, force them to stop seeing the doctors they like, and threaten their ability to receive the care they need.
President Trump is fighting for senior citizens, ensuring they receive quality healthcare through Medicare and have the ability to keep the plans they want.

TAKING CHOICE AWAY FROM AMERICANS: President Trump is expanding choice while Congressional Democrats are attempting to control every aspect of your healthcare.

Medicare-for-All eliminates private insurance, taking away all choice and forcing millions of Americans onto government controlled plans.

It would reduce patient choice to a single provider of healthcare, forcing over 180 million Americans off their private coverage.


Congressional Democrats want to give the Government control over which procedures are "medically necessary or appropriate for maintenance of health," taking decisions about your care out of your hands.
President Trump believes in a healthcare system where Americans are able to make the healthcare decisions that are right for them.

The Trump Administration has worked to expand multiple new coverage choices for small businesses, workers, and families.



MEDICARE-FOR-NONE: Medicare-for-All would force patients to face massive wait times for treatments and destroy access to quality care.

Congressional Democrats' radical government takeover of your healthcare would increase your wait times, ration quality care, and stifle innovation.

In the United Kingdom, hospital death rates have been reported to be far higher than in the United States.
In the United Kingdom, which has a single payer system, 50,000 procedures were cancelled when their National Health Service decided they were "non-urgent."
Millions of patients have had to wait in long lines to be admitted for surgeries in the United Kingdom.
In 2018, more than one million Canadians were on waiting lists for medical procedures.


President Trump is working to promote new innovations, expand access to high quality care, and protect vulnerable patients.

  