
    

  "The fact that the Obama campaign has not provided more information about who these small donors are really runs counter to his transparency message." -- Sheila Krumholz, Center For Responsive Politics

CBS' "Evening News"
October 27, 2008
CBS' Katie Couric: "If it seems that you're seeing a lot more of Barack Obama on TV, there's a good reason. He raised a lot more money than John McCain, and since clinching the nomination in June, he's outspent him better than 2-1. So where did Senator Obama get that kind of cash? Sharyl Attkisson follows the money."
CBS' Sharyl Attkisson: "Early on, both Barack Obama and John McCain promised to limit their fundraising, but Obama reversed that pledge when he won his party's nomination. Now he ranks as the greatest political fundraiser of all time, more than $600 million, compared to $350 million for McCain. Obama's broken another record. He's gotten more money than anyone in history from unidentified donors with names like 'Doodad' who lists his employer as 'Loving,' and has given more than $17,000, way over federal limits."
Barack Obama: "Ninety percent of our contributions are from small donors."
Attkisson: "And lots of Obama donors don't have to be disclosed at all under federal law because they gave under $200. McCain's posted his small donor list online -- an imperfect list that has some cities listed as 'Anonymous' -- but Obama hasn't given any details at all about who his small donors are, drawing extra criticism after he raised a record-shattering $150 million last month alone."
Center For Response Politics' Sheila Krumholz: "The fact that the Obama campaign has not provided more information about who these small donors are really runs counter to his transparency message."
Attkisson: "You might be surprised by who else besides those unnamed small donors is on the Obama team. Like McCain, Obama's corporate donor list reads like a who's who of the Wall Street collapse, only some are giving more to Obama -- lots more."
Krumholz: "The Obama campaign has just vacuumed up the money in this cycle, specifically from Goldman Sachs. Obama has received over $740,000, as compared to McCain's $220,000."
Attkisson: "Not to mention that the former head of Goldman Sachs, Robert Rubin, is Obama's chief economic advisor, and two current executives are bundling for him. Bundlers are mega-fundraisers who critics say get special access. Another big Obama bundler is Citicorp's Michael Froman. Obama's even tapped him to help put together his new administration. Obama's tripled McCain's hall from Lehman Brothers Interest. Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and J.P. Morgan Chase --more, more, and lots more to Obama. An Obama spokesman told us they followed all federal rules and have gone above and beyond transparency requirements."
Barack Obama: "The real question is, will our country be better off four years from now?"
Attkisson: "The election is still undecided, but the money race, it's not even close. Sharyl Attkisson, CBS News, Washington."
Watch The Report
  