
    This Halloween, the President and First Lady will welcome local schoolchildren and children of military families to trick-or-treat at the South Portico of the White House, which will be decorated for the occasion. More than 4,000 people are expected to visit the White House for Halloween this year, including students from the following schools:
Washington, DC Schools
DC Scholars Public Charter School
Excel Academy Public Charter School
Eagle Academy Public Charter School
Simon Elementary School
Virginia Schools
Douglas MacArthur Elementary School
Moorefield Station Elementary School
Buffalo Trail Elementary School
Anne E. Moncure Elementary School
Maryland Schools
Veterans Elementary Schools
Cradlerock Elementary School
Indian Queen Elementary School
H. Winship Wheatley Early Childhood Center 
Carboy Hills Elementary School
Lexington Park Elementary School
Benjamin Banneker Elementary School
TRICKS 
This Halloween, the White House and the surrounding grounds will be transformed into A Storybook Journey. As trick-or-treaters make their way across the South Drive, they will visit different station featuring décor inspired by classic tales, including Mother Goose, Peter Pan, Alice in Wonderland, The Wizard of Oz, and Peter Rabbit.  
A group of local students will also join a flash mob to the song Thriller, led by Joy of Motion Dance Company.
TREATS
The following treats will be provided:
•       A box of White House Hershey Kisses
•       A White House Halloween Cookie
•       A box of White House M&Ms
•       Fruit Bars
•       Kettle Corn
•       Bo and Sunny baseball cards
•       An assortment of candies
The White House Halloween Cookie Recipe
1 lb Sugar                                            1 tsp Vanilla
2 lbs Butter                                      1 tsp Salt
3 Eggs                                                   3 lbs All Purpose Flour
Mix the butter and sugar till soft and well beaten. Then add eggs, vanilla, salt and half the flour. Beat on slow speed till mixed, then add the rest of the flour and mix until incorporated.
Push flat onto a cookie sheet and refrigerate overnight. Roll out to one quarter inch thick and cut out cookie shapes with cookie cutter.
Bake at 350 degrees Fahrenheit for 14 minutes and allow to cool.
  