
    Dear George:
It is with deep regret that I accept your resignation as a Member and Chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports, effective October 31, 1987.
I have been fortunate to have had someone of your abilities and dedication as Chairman of the Council for the past six years. Your accomplishments have been many and you can take great pride in them. Among your outstanding achievements are initiation of the Governor's Councils on Physical Fitness and Sports; expanding the Presidential Physical Fitness Award program to include youngsters from 6 to 9 years of age; establishing the US/USSR Youth Fitness Exchange Program; establishing National Conferences on Youth Fitness and Fitness and Aging; airing youth fitness public service television announcements that point out the benefits of exercise in easing teenage stress; designating the month of May each year as National Fitness and Sports Month; establishing 23 regional clinics on physical fitness and sports; airing a continuous radio program of 18 public service announcements distributed to 4,000 stations nationwide; inaugurating the "Get Fit" campaign; and planning the First World Congress on Physical Fitness for All to be held next year in our Nation's Capital.
I know your duties have been challenging and time-consuming, but throughout your unprecedented tenure as Chairman, you have consistently met those challenges with enthusiasm, energy, and dedication. You have my deepest gratitude for your service to our Nation.
Nancy joins me in thanking you and wishing you, your wife Etty, and your family the best in all future endeavors. God bless you.
Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
August 11, 1987
My Dear Mr. President,
It is with a heavy heart that I write to you at this time. After much deliberation with my family, business associates and valued friends, I feel that a decision must be made pertaining to my various responsibilities.
Mr. President, early in your administration you gave me the great honor of appointing me Chairman of the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. I have enjoyed this tremendous challenge and have much pride over a number of accomplishments. In fact, during these Reagan years, the Council has been more productive than it has in its entire history.
Concurrently, I have worked to establish and to fund the National Fitness Foundation. Similar to my work with the Council, this has been and still remains to be a quite demanding assignment. However, I am elated over the substantial progress we have made.
Mr. President, I have reached a point at which I am compelled to resign from my post with the Council. I resign with great reluctance and sorrow, for there is much yet to be accomplished with the many exciting programs which are well underway.
I am grateful to you for this honor, this splendid opportunity. I have worked with all the vigor within me to serve you to the very best of my ability and I am proud to have served in this capacity under you, Mr. President.
With full and enthusiastic support for your administration, I look forward to continuing my role as Chairman of the National Fitness Foundation.
Please accept my warmest wishes to you and The First Lady.
Respectfully yours,
GEORGE H. ALLEN
  