
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




October 29, 202206:47

Travel pool report #1: call time moved
The White House has moved the call time to 8:45am. (It was previously 9:30pm)



October 29, 202210:02

Travel pool report #2:Checking in
Hello from Wilmington (near Biden's private residence),
The travel pool has been swept and holding on a bus for POTUS, who is scheduled to vote today with his granddaughter Natalie.



October 29, 202210:39

Travel pool report #3: motorcade rolling to OTR location
at 10:37am Your pooler did not see Biden enter his vehicle. I will let you know more when I can.



October 29, 202211:25

Travel pool report #4: motorcade arrives at St Andrew's School, pool peels off
The pool peeled off the motorcade, which stoped at St. Andrew's School in Middletown, Delaware at 11:12am. The ride was uneventful.
Your pooler did not see Biden exit the motorcade.
The press pool is en route to a holding location.
From the WH: The President attends his granddaughter Natalie's field hockey game at St. Andrew's School.



October 29, 202213:31

Travel pool report #5: motorcade rolling
At 1:29am
Before the motorcade began rolling, the pool sat in a van on a road across from the school.



October 29, 202214:11

Travel pool report #6: motorcade arrives at residence
The motorcade arrived at Biden's private residence at 2:08pm.
The ride was uneventful. Your pooler did not see Biden enter or exit his car. Pool is still in the van.



October 29, 202216:00

Travel pool report #7: motorcade rolling
at 3:57 en route to the polling station.
Earlier after dropping Biden off, the pool held in a van near his private residence.



October 29, 202216:14

Travel pool report #8: motorcade at polling station
The motorcade arrived at the polling station at 4:11pm
The ride was uneventful.
It looks like your print pooler will be the only reporter in the room along with one tv camera and one tv audio. We are headed inside now. The rest of the pool is holding outside the polling center.



October 29, 202216:45

Travel pool report #9: Biden at polling station, motorcade back to residence
The pool spray entered the polling station before POTUS.
POTUS exited the motorcade stopped to speak with a woman voter in a wheel chair outside the polling station before entering at 4:15.
Your pooler could hear Biden say "I love you too," before entering.
(Your pooler saw the woman inside the center just after she voted. Polling workers applauded her just before she left and had an interaction with Biden.)
Biden entered the polling station with his granddaughter Natalie. Biden told
The workers this was her first time voting before the polling workers applauded. Biden signed on a screen before the polling worker handed him a ballot.
Natalie first peeled off to vote while Biden lingered a bit longer.
The polling worker said "Joseph Biden now voting" after finishing in the tablet. Another worker corrected her to indicate she should have said president. Biden replied, "Joes good enough for me."
Biden entered the voting booth at 4:16. Natalie finished voting at 4:18. Natalie put a sticker on Biden's left jacket lapel on his chest. He put one on her shirt and He gave her a kiss on the cheek. Your pooler asked if he phoned the president of South Korea (following the stampede) and he said would not speak inside but would chat outside the polling center. The pool spray was directed to leave before Biden left. He came to speak with the pool outside at 4:21.
Biden said he would address the Pelosi assault. "We don't know for certain but it looks like this was intended for Nancy."
"It's one thing to condemn the violence. But you can't condemn the violence unless you condemn those people who are arguing that the election is not real…."
"The talk has to stop. That's the problem. That's the problem…condemn what produces the violence."
On South Korea, Biden said he didn't hear about the stampede until he was in the motorcade on the way here and said he would make a statement when he learns more.
On the midterms, Biden said he is "feeling good." He touted where he's gone thus far to campaign
"this is not a referendum." "It's a fundamental choice between two different people."
On Russia pulling out of the grain deal:
"They're always looking for some rationale to do or say anything outrageous," he said. "There's no merit to what they're doing."
Biden said Fetterman looked strong last night. "Fetterman is my kind of guy." "He's just getting better and better."
Biden enters the motorcade at 4:25 and we began rolling at 4:26 for the residence. The motorcade arrived at 4:39pm. Pool is holding in the van.
These are rough quotes. For more complete quotes, listen here or online.
https://otter.ai/u/KBpe_kVEMkzc9o4P1-wSwMMndyo
On the polling center: it was located near a Westin hotel and a planet fitness in a shopping center. There was a sign for an Amtrak station, which appeared to be close by.



October 29, 202217:03

Travel pool report #10: motorcade rolling
At 5:01pm
Correction on Biden's "outrageous" quote about Russia pulling out of the grain deal. It should read:
"It's really outrageous to increase starvation."



October 29, 202217:08

Travel pool report #11: motorcade arrives at church
POTUS' motorcade arrived at Saint Joseph on the Brandywine Church at 5:04pm. Your pooler could not see Biden exit his vehicle. But he did walk with his granddaughter Natalie across the grounds at 5:05pm. Pool is holding in the van.



October 29, 202218:13

Travel pool report #12: motorcade departs, arrives at residence+lid
Biden emerged from the church at with his granddaughter, Natalie and his daughter Valerie at 5:53pm. He paused outside for a moment to speak with the priest, per another pool member. He stopped again on the right side of the church in the walkway to speak to a man and walked to the back of the church with a group of people. (My sight or vision was temporarily blocked by trees). The pool was then quickly shuffled to the van, which held on the side of the church for a few minutes before Biden went behind the church. Your pooler did not see Biden enter the motorcade, which began rolling at 6:03 and arrived at Biden's residence at 6:09pm
The ride was uneventful. The White House called a lid at 6:11. Have a wonderful evening!
If you missed it, The White House put out a statement on the deadly stampede in South Korea:
Statement by President Joe Biden on Tragedy in Seoul, Republic of Korea
Jill and I send our deepest condolences to the families who lost loved ones in Seoul. We grieve with the people of the Republic of Korea and send our best wishes for a quick recovery to all those who were injured. The Alliance between our two countries has never been more vibrant or more vital – and the ties between our people are stronger than ever. The United States stands with the Republic of Korea during this tragic time.



October 29, 202218:22

Travel pool report #12a:correction—sister Valeria
Hello
Correction—his sister Valeria was with him at church. Not daughter.
Sorry!




  