
    Today, Biden for President hosted a "Mobilize Main Street" event featuring Jill Biden and Tory Burch, Founder of the Tory Burch Foundation and Executive Chairman and Chief Creative Officer of Tory Burch. CEO and Founder of The Lip Bar Melissa Butler moderated the conversation, which also featured remarks from small business owner and advocate Rhonda Abrams. The event focused on the unique challenges that women face in business, particularly during the pandemic, and how a Biden-Harris Administration would help women-owned businesses build back better.
Watch the full conversation HERE.
"After they take office, Joe and Kamala will provide small businesses with the resources they need to survive, recover, and build back better, so that millions of entrepreneurs can get back on their feet and carry this economy forward," said Jill Biden. "They're going to expand access to capital and remove barriers to government contracts. And they'll provide technical assistance so that businesses -- particularly those owned by women and people of color -- can take advantage of these opportunities. They know that your work is the foundation of our communities and this country, and they will be a partner in ensuring that small businesses recover from the current crisis and ultimately thrive."
"It is tough to be a woman in business right now," said Tory Burch. "...We see three major challenges. Number one -- no surprise -- access to capital. Sixteen percent of PPP loans went to women when women own 40% of businesses in America. That alone is a statistic that needs to change. The second challenge: we know that people of color were disproportionately impacted by COVID… close to 500,000 Black-owned businesses have closed just from February through April. And that was a stat that floored me. And the third thing we are seeing is a very big challenge is that women have taken on the child-care burden...Women are resilient… but the bottom line is small businesses need help."
"It is critical for business leaders that we have a strong democracy," Burch continued. She spoke about her effort to encourage Fortune 500 companies to give paid time off so that their employees can vote on Election Day. Tory Burch stores will also offer a day of paid leave to employees that volunteer as a poll worker on Election Day. "Voting is American."
"Yes, women are strong, but we don't want to always have to be strong," said Melissa Butler. "We need an administration that is going to take that care and know that we are going that extra mile to support our families, our communities, and our businesses."
"My heart has been broken watching hundreds of thousands, maybe even millions of small businesses die...it makes me sad and angry because this simply didn't have to happen," said Rhonda Abrams, who recently endorsed the Biden-Harris ticket in her first presidential endorsement. "It wasn't just COVID that killed these businesses, Donald Trump wasn't up to the job, and we are far from out of the woods. We desperately need a competent, stable leader."
  