
    Edwards takes lead in ending the money game in Washington, raises small change for big change for America
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – The John Edwards for President campaign announced today that it raised $7 million during the third quarter fundraising period, putting the campaign on track to raise the $40 million needed to implement the campaign's plan to win.
Senator John Edwards' campaign has been built on reaching out to all Americans, not just those who can give the maximum donation. Ninety-seven percent of this quarter's contributions were in amounts of $250 or under, and less than 1% of contributions were in amounts of $1000 or more. The campaign has continued to build grassroots support through its "Small Change for Big Change" fundraisers – 70 percent of this quarter's fundraising total came from grassroots fundraising. "We are thrilled with the support we've received from people across the country," said Deputy Campaign Manager Jonathan Prince. "Americans from every walk of life are responding to Senator Edwards' message and bold plans to change Washington. The campaign wants to thank all of our supporters for their hard work - because of their efforts we will have the resources we need to be competitive and win the nomination."
The campaign expanded its donor base this quarter as more and more Americans join Edwards' campaign to build One America, where every person has the same opportunities to succeed that he has had. Since January, more than 150,000 Americans have contributed to Edwards' campaign for change, and almost half the donors this quarter were first time Edwards contributors.
Last week, Edwards announced he would seek public financing for the 2008 presidential primary campaign. Just as he challenged the Democratic Party to stop accepting contributions from lobbyists, Edwards once again took the lead in ending the money game in Washington, sending a powerful signal to the American people about whose support really matters. Edwards, who has never taken a dime from PACs or Washington lobbyists, believes it is important to play by the rules that were designed to ensure fairness in the election process by capping his campaign spending and participating in the public finance system.
Americans from across the country realize that the stakes are too high to not elect a Democrat to the White House in 2008 and believe Edwards is both the most electable candidate and the candidate with the boldest plans to truly change our country. Because he's focused on issues that matter to the American people, Edwards has won the support of Americans from every part of the country and received contributions from every state.
Third quarter fundraising figures from the John Edwards for President campaign include:


$7 million raised this quarter.
70 percent of the contributions came from grassroots fundraising.
More than 150,000 contributors from across the country this year.
93 percent of contributions were in amounts of $100 or less.
97 percent of contributions were in amounts of $250 or less.
Less than 1 percent of contributions were in amounts of $1000 or more.
Almost half the donors this quarter were first time Edwards contributors.

  