
    This is now the 7th time the FBI has investigated Judge Kavanaugh. If we made it 100, it would still not be good enough for the Obstructionist Democrats.President Donald J. Trump
ANSWERING REPEATED CALLS FOR A SUPPLEMENTAL FBI INVESTIGATION: Senate Democrats repeatedly said a supplemental FBI investigation was the only way to get to the truth.

Senate Democrat Leader Sen. Chuck Schumer and Democrat Judiciary Committee Ranking Member Sen. Dianne Feinstein wrote in a letter to President Donald J. Trump that background investigations are "FBI's standard practice."
Chuck Schumer: "There is really only one way to get to the bottom of these allegations and prevent the Nation from being thrown into further turmoil: an independent background check by the FBI."
Dianne Feinstein: "I think we need to do this investigation."
Mazie Hirono: "How do you get to the truth if you won't even allow an investigation?"
Dick Durbin: "If there is no truth to her charges, the FBI investigation will show that."
Chris Coons: "It is my hope that we could work together on a bipartisan basis to diligently pursue an FBI investigation within the next week."
Richard Blumenthal: "My view is that the FBI is an investigative agency of consummate skill and integrity. It will follow the facts and the law and the evidence where it leads them."
Amy Klobuchar: "Just ask the President to reopen the FBI investigation."

MEETING THE DEMOCRATS' OWN TIMELINE: In their calls for a supplemental FBI investigation, Senate Democrats touted that it could be completed in a week or less. 

In their letter to President Trump, Sens. Schumer and Feinstein claimed the FBI "has almost a full week to do its work" and "it will not take a ‘tremendous amount of time.'"
Chuck Schumer: "It will only take a few days."
Chuck Schumer: "The FBI has ample resources to do this within the one-week period requested by the members of the Judiciary Committee. No one is asking that it take longer than a week..."
Patty Murray: "That is exactly why we have been pressing for an FBI investigation that should only take a few days, so there are other facts out there, that there are other witnesses."
Chris Coons: "I do think it's possible for us to have the FBI do a prompt and appropriate professional questioning of some of the core people here."
Chris Coons: "And I have conveyed to my friends and colleagues that I had wished we would take a one-week pause, one week only."

MOVING THE GOAL POSTS: Now that Senate Democrats have gotten exactly what they called for, they are moving the goal posts once again. 

Chuck Schumer: "This is not a thorough investigation."
Feinstein: "The most notable part of this report is what's not in it.... It looks to be a product of an incomplete investigation..."
Kamala Harris: "The FBI report on Judge Kavanaugh is entirely incomplete and insufficient."
Richard Blumenthal: "There is nothing, absolutely nothing about this deadline that's been imposed by the majority leader makes any sense."

  