
    AUSTIN — Texas Gov. Rick Perry today announced his New Hampshire campaign steering committee, which includes twenty-six Republican leaders representing all 10 New Hampshire counties
"I have been involved in New Hampshire politics for more than three decades and I have never seen a stronger and more dedicated group of campaign volunteers," said Gordon Humphrey, former U.S. Senator and Perry steering committee member. It speaks to the strength and leadership of Gov. Perry and his message of job creation."
Additionally, the Perry campaign is building a statewide organization of county, city, town, and ward chairs that it will announce later in the year. Last month, Gov. Perry also earned the endorsement of 27 of New Hampshire state representatives in the first 5 weeks of its campaign, three times more than Mitt Romney had after five years of campaigning in the Granite State.
"These hard-working steering committee members will serve as the nucleus for the first-rate political organization we are building in New Hampshire," said Perry New Hampshire Senior Advisor Paul Young. "We are grateful for their support as well as the enthusiastic support we have received from hundreds of volunteers across the state."
"The strength and breadth of our New Hampshire steering committee is an important addition to our growing campaign organization, " said Perry Campaign Manager Rob Johnson. "They will be instrumental in our efforts to share Gov. Perry's bold ideas about how to change the direction of this country and get America working again."
The 26 members named to the New Hampshire Perry steering committee are:

Sen. Gordon Humphrey — Chichester
Rep. Spec Bowers — Sunapee
Rep. Robert Greemore — Meredith
Rep. Pete Silva — Nashua
Rep. Will Smith — New Castle
Rep. Pam Tucker — Greenland
The Hon. Emile Beaulieau — Manchester
The Hon. Chuck Douglas — Concord
The Hon. Dick Ferdinando — Manchester
The Hon. Sandy Reeves - Manchester
The Hon. Gregory Slayton — Hanover
Ambassador Joseph and Augusta Petrone — Dublin
Jim Adams — Pittsfield
Peter Angerhofer — Stratham
Robert Chernin — Hanover
Patty Humphrey — Chichester
Cliff Hurst — Manchester
Steve Lewis — Atkinson
Sean Mahoney — Portsmouth
Scott Mason — North Stratford
David McLaughlin — Nashua
Doug Newell — Derry
Marian Noronha — Madbury
John Stephen - Manchester
Maynard Thomson — Freedom
Jack Tulley — Nashua

  