
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 8
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton went to Camp David, MD.
October 9
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
October 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Dearborn, MI, where he toured the Ford Mustang plant.
In the afternoon, the President met with United Auto Workers union leaders at the Westin Renaissance Hotel in Detroit, MI. He then went to the Detroit Free Press Building where he met with the members of the newspaper's editorial board. He returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
The President announced the nomination of Charles "Lindy" Marinaccio as a member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Mufi Hannemann as Representative to the South Pacific Commission.
October 12
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Anibal Cavaco Silva of Portugal. Following the meeting, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a White House reception for members of the Portuguese-American community.
The President announced his intention to nominate Howard W. Cannon, William Quinn, and Lynda Hare Scribante as members of the Board of Trustees for the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation.
October 13
In the evening, the President attended a fundraiser for Representative Bob Carr at the Hay-Adams Hotel.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ygnacio Garza, Peter Silva, and Lynda Taylor as members of the Board of Directors of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission.
October 14
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a dinner at the White House honoring arts and humanities awards recipients.
The President announced that he has appointed the following four members to the Commission of Fine Arts: J. Carter Brown (reappointment), Rex Ball, Carolyn Brody, and Eden Rafshoon.
The President announced his intention to appoint Linda Walker Bynoe and Barry Gordon to the Board of Governors for the United Service Organizations, Inc.
  