
    In response to reports by the Washington Post on off-shoring and job losses under the Trump Administration, former South Bend, Indiana Mayor Pete Buttigieg released the following statement:
"Trump has made one too many broken promises to America's workers, and now his time is up. Like everything else that's been handed to him, Trump took the booming economy he inherited from the Obama-Biden Administration and squandered it, plunging us into a recession. Now American manufacturing has hit historic lows, and there are fewer factory workers than when Trump came into office. The sad truth is that Trump is on track to be the worst jobs president since Herbert Hoover.
Even before the onset of the pandemic, Trump was presiding over a decline in American manufacturing. The Trump Administration has certified nearly 2,000 petitions — covering 184,888 jobs — related to companies moving jobs overseas, more than under the second term of the Obama Administration. For Hoosiers, manufacturing jobs are at a six-year low. The President said that he was going to save hundreds of jobs at companies like Carrier, but in reality, more jobs for hardworking Hoosiers have been outsourced than have been preserved.
Families across the country are working harder than ever and still struggling to make ends meet — and instead of fighting to keep their jobs in the country or getting them the relief they need during this pandemic, Trump has abandoned them to focus on corporate handouts and tax cuts for the wealthy.
That's why America's workers are supporting Joe Biden. Joe is the jobs candidate, plain and simple. According to independent economists at Moody's, a Biden presidency would mean comparatively lower unemployment, 7.4 million more jobs, and $1 trillion in additional growth through 2024 than if Trump were reelected. Unlike Trump, Joe Biden has a real plan to save American jobs and support America's workers. As part of the Build Back Better plan, Biden will turn the tide on Trump's off-shoring and manufacturing recession: fixing our tax code so that it promotes a "Made in America" future, establishing a Biden Offshoring Tax Penalty and a Biden "Made in America" Tax Credit, and closing the Trump Offshoring Loopholes that have left so many American workers behind.
  