
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Office (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that the President of the Mobile County Commission, Stephen Nodine, has endorsed his campaign for President of the United States. Commissioner Nodine will help build Governor Romney's grassroots efforts in the state and communicate his message of conservative change in Washington.
Announcing the endorsement, Governor Romney said, "I am proud that Commissioner Nodine has joined our campaign. We are building a very strong team across the state. Commissioner Nodine is a great leader with an excellent work ethic. He shares my vision of a strong military, a strong economy, and strong families. I am honored to have his endorsement, and look forward to working with him as we campaign in Alabama."
Mobile County Commissioner Stephen Nodine said, "Governor Mitt Romney is the only candidate in this race who has demonstrated that he can lead our nation to a brighter future. Governor Romney has the leadership abilities and executive experience to make America stronger and bring conservative policies and principles back to Washington."
Commissioner Nodine's endorsement comes on the heels of Governor Romney's becoming the first Republican Presidential candidate to qualify for access to the Alabama primary ballot. Kay Ivey, Governor Romney's Alabama statewide campaign chairman, filed the necessary petitions and paperwork on Monday, October 8 to the Alabama Republican State Party Headquarters.
U.S. Representatives Robert Aderholt (R-AL) and Mike Rogers (R-AL) have also endorsed Governor Romney's candidacy for President of the United States.
Background On Mobile County Commissioner Stephen Nodine:
Stephen Nodine Serves As The President Of The Mobile County Commission. Prior to his election to the County Commission in 2004, Commissioner Nodine worked in the political arena as a political and media consultant as well as a city council person for the City of Mobile. Most recently, he helped secure ThyssenKrupp, one of the largest economic development projects in Alabama history. Commissioner Nodine is also involved in the Mobile Boys and Girls Club. He is the President of the Mobile Business and Professional Association, Co-founder of the Mobile Jump Start Juvenile Boot Camp Program. He is a member of the Board of Advisors for the Mobile County Chamber of Commerce as well as the Alabama State Port Authority. Commissioner Nodine is a former aide to former NATO Commander General Alexander Haig. He also served under Governor Haley Barbour as advance coordinator for the Republican National Committee in 1988 and worked on George H.W. Bush's 1989 inaugural team. Commissioner Nodine resides in Mobile with his family.
  