
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsement of Arkansas Congressman Tim Griffin. Griffin will serve as the Arkansas Chairman of the Romney campaign and will serve on the campaign's National Advisory Council.
"I am proud to announce Congressman Griffin's support," said Mitt Romney. "Tim has been a leader in the fight to cut spending, reduce burdensome regulations, and create an environment for businesses to start hiring again. I look forward to working with him as I bring my pro-growth message to Arkansans and voters across the country."
Announcing his support, Congressman Griffin said, "President Obama's policies have been categorical failures for our country. Unemployment is over nine percent, our deficits are growing, and small businesses are being burdened with regulations. In order for our country and economy to get on the right track again, we need a leader who understands how the real economy works and has the vision to fundamentally change Washington. That leader is Mitt Romney. No other candidate in the field possesses his lifetime of success in both the private sector and as a governor. Whether it was turning around failing companies, rescuing the Olympics, or improving the business climate in Massachusetts, Mitt Romney has proven that he is ready to be president on day one."
Background On Congressman Tim Griffin:
Congressman Griffin Represents The Second District Of Arkansas. Rep. Griffin was elected in November 2010. He serves on the House Armed Services Committee, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the House Committee on the Judiciary. Prior to his election, Rep. Griffin was the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Arkansas. Griffin was a Special Assistant to President George W. Bush in the Office of Political Affairs. Griffin has also worked at the Department of Justice, the Republican National Committee, and the House Government Reform Committee. Griffin is the founder of Griffin Law Firm, PLLC, a Little Rock law firm and Griffin Public Affairs, LLC. He is a graduate of Hendrix College and Tulane University Law School.
  