
    MANCHESTER, NH –The New Hampshire for Hillary campaign today announced that Kathy Sullivan, the former New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair, has endorsed Hillary for President and will serve as a New Hampshire campaign Co-Chair. Her announcement comes as the Hillary for President campaign launches Women Changing America week in celebration of the ways women are changing America in their communities everyday.
"I am proud to support the person I believe will be the best president," said Sullivan, a Manchester resident. "Senator Clinton is one of the smartest people I've met. She cares about the issues I care about – education, children, civil rights, women's issues, economic fairness and health care. She will also get us out of Iraq as quickly as possible while keeping our troops as safe as possible."
Sullivan chaired the New Hampshire Democratic Party from 1999 – 2007, making her the longest serving chair in the State Party's history. She guided the Party through two historic elections. In 2004, New Hampshire was the only state in the nation to go from Red to Blue. Under Sullivan's guidance, the New Hampshire Democrats saw success again in 2006, when they re-elected a Democratic governor, ousted two incumbent Republican congressmen and took control of the State House.
Currently, Sullivan is the managing partner of the New Hampshire law firm Wadleigh, Starr and Peters. She also serves as President of the Mary Gale Foundation, which works to assist elderly needy women in Manchester. Sullivan is a former Treasurer and Director of the New Hampshire Women's Lobby and a former Director of the Manchester YWCA.
"Kathy has been a champion for New Hampshire's Democratic Party and I am honored to have her support," said Senator Clinton. "Her unique experience will be an asset to me as I continue working hard to earn the support of New Hampshire voters across the state."
Sullivan plans to begin working immediately on the campaign's behalf attending Democratic Party and other grassroots events across the state.
For more information on the New Hampshire for Hillary campaign, visit our webpage at www.hillaryclinton.com/nh.
  