
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Prescott and Tucson, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Arizona families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Arizona the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program protected 1 million Arizona jobs by providing more than $8.6 billion worth of loans to over 85,000 Arizona businesses.
More than 3.4 million Arizonans received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $5.8 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing up to $2.8 billion worth of aid to the state and more than $707 million to 6,017 health care providers in Arizona.

Arizona businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Arizona workers and businesses.
In the last 4 months, Arizona added 172,400 jobs back following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus.
Arizona added more than 244,000 new jobs between President Trump's election and February 2020, including 14,900 new manufacturing jobs.
Before China unleashed the coronavirus on the world, Arizona's unemployment rate had fallen to just 4.5%. The average unemployment rate during the Obama-Biden administration was 8%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to create over 23,176 new Arizona jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 168 Arizona communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Arizona's economy:

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Arizona's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports nearly $10 billion annually in goods to Canada and Mexico.

As a border state, President Trump's USMCA trade deal is critical to fueling Arizona's economic growth.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports more than 228,000 jobs in Arizona, including 19,000 manufacturing jobs


President Trump is defending Arizona farmers and agriculture producers from China's unfair tariffs by providing $56.7 million in direct USDA payments.

But Joe Biden's radical, far-left agenda will decimate Arizona workers and families:

The terrible trade deals that Biden supported during his 44 years as a career politician in Washington killed Arizona jobs.

Arizona lost 10,800 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden voted for.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 63,400 Arizona jobs.
Arizona lost 13,800 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.


Biden's radical energy policies and promise to "end fossil fuel" would devastate Arizona workers and businesses.

The oil, gas, and coal industries support 102,000 Arizona jobs and contributes $8.6 billion to the state's economy annually.


Biden's government-run health care proposal endangers the private health insurance plans that nearly 3.5 million Arizonans rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 11 of Arizona's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.


Joe Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. 190,000 Arizona students are enrolled in over 550 charter schools throughout the state.
Joe Biden has endorsed radical immigration policies that are tantamount to open borders – including halting deportations, muzzling our ICE agents, and supporting sanctuary cities.

  