
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




October 4, 202212:35

White House Pool Report No. 1 - press briefing at 1:15 p.m.
Good afternoon from the White House. I'll be your print pooler on this chilly autumn day. The White House says the press briefing will now start at 1:15 p.m.
More TK!



October 4, 202213:38

White House Pool Report 2 - 2 minute warning
Two minute warning on briefing.



October 4, 202214:45

White House Pool Report No. 3 - briefing concludes
The briefing kicked off at 1:43 p.m. It wrapped at 2:44 p.m.



October 4, 202215:17

White House Pool Report No. 4 - gathering
The pool is gathering for the reproductive rights event.
The White House website has a steaming link, so I'll just be sending color.



October 4, 202215:44

White House Pool Report No. 5 - event start/participants
At 3:38 p.m., pool was led into the State Dining room. The president and VP are seated at a large table with about 20 cabinet officials and doctors.
VP Harris kicked off the meeting, calling out "extremist so-called leaders" in Arizona and Wisconsin, as examples.
The event is ongoing ...
Participating with the President and the Vice President for remarks at the second meeting of the Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access:

Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human Services, Task Force Co-Chair
Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education
Director Shalanda Young, Office of Management and Budget
Director Arati Prabhakar, Office of Science and Technology Policy
Jennifer Klein, Assistant to the President & Director of the Gender Policy Council, Task Force Co-Chair
Stuart Delery, Assistant to the President & White House Counsel
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Ambassador Susan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
Julie Rodriguez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Evan Ryan, Assistant to the President and Cabinet Secretary
Deputy Secretary Wally Adeyemo, Department of the Treasury
Deputy Secretary Kathleen Hicks, Department of Defense
Deputy Secretary John Tien, Department of Homeland Security
Deputy Secretary Julie Su, Department of Labor
Chair Lina Khan, Federal Trade Commission
Chair Jessica Rosenworcel, Federal Communications Commission

Participating Virtually

Secretary Denis McDonough, Department of Veterans Affairs

Speaking Program

Task Force Co-Chair Jennifer Klein, Assistant to the President & Director of the Gender Policy Council
The Vice President
The President
Secretary Miguel Cardona, Department of Education
Dr. Nisha Verma, Georgia
Dr. Kristin Lyerly, Wisconsin
Dr. Jamila Perritt, Washington, D.C.
Dr. Sadia Haider, Illinois




October 4, 202216:14

White House Pool Report No. 6 - event wraps
President Biden started speaking at 3:45 p.m.
"Folks, what century are we in?" He asked at one point.
"My Lord, we're talking about contraception here."
"Don't, please don't," he said to colleges contemplating limiting contraception.
At 3:50 p.m., Secretary Cardona took over, followed by the medical experts.
At 4:11, pool was pulled out - Biden mouthed something, but it didn't appear to be in response to the chorus of questions that was shouted.



October 4, 202216:22

White House Pool Report No. 7 - lid
The White House called a lid at 4:20 p.m.
Have a wonderful night!




  