
    First Lady Melania Trump traveled to Wyoming on Thursday, October 3rd for a two day visit in Wyoming highlighting some of our nation's most treasured National Parks, sharing BE BEST's message of wellbeing.
After arriving in Jackson, Wyoming, Mrs. Trump joined a group of the Jackson District Boy Scouts at Jackson Hole Town Square, under the iconic elk antler arches. The First Lady was met by Mindy Kim-Miller, the first woman Scoutmaster in Jackson. The scouts talked with the First Lady about the important part they play in the long-standing relationship between the Boy Scouts and the National Elk Refuge – which dates back to the 1950s. The antlers are collected on the refuge and sold at auction. The majority of the proceeds return to the refuge in support of elk management and habitat enhancement. The remaining funds stay with the local Boy Scout troop. Prior to departing, Mrs. Trump visited the Veterans Memorial in the town square. Director of the Teton County/Jackson Parks and Recreation, Steve Ashworth, provided an overview of the historical Veterans Memorial and Veterans Art Project.
In the afternoon, Mrs. Trump and fourth graders from the Teton County School district traveled by river raft down a scenic stretch of Jackson Hole's Snake River. They observed a protected sanctuary of wildlife, pristine local vegetation, sagebrush plateaus, cottonwood and spruce forests, and wildflowers. The entire Teton Range was also visible in the distance. Accompanying the group was owner and guide, John Turner and his great nephew.
Friday morning, Mrs. Trump traveled to Teton National Park where she was met by Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt and Acting Superintendent of Grand Teton National Park Gopaul Noojiabail. The First Lady met with dozens of second and fourth graders inside the Craig Thomas Discovery and Visitor Center. Inside, the young students were at various stations set up around the room. Each station had an activity to help children learn more about the outdoors. Mrs. Trump distributed "Every Kid Outdoors" passes – a continuation from last month when she distributed passes at the reopening of the Washington Monument. The passes are part of a National Park Service's program, which provides fourth graders with free access to beautiful parks and waters across the country.
The First Lady's initiative, BE BEST, continues to highlight resources for children that build an important relationship between America's natural heritage and the next generation. The Every Kid Outdoors program offers fourth grade students the chance to connect with nature and observe some of the country's greatest natural phenomena and treasures.
Mrs. Trump and Secretary Bernhardt also observed an arrowhead presentation by the visiting students.
Prior to departing, the First Lady visited the Snake River Overlook. There, she read about the area's geography and took in the views of the Teton Range. After a scenic drive along the periphery of the National Elk Refuge, the motorcade made one final stop outdoors where Mrs. Trump posed for a few photos in front of the Grand Teton National Park sign to commemorate her visit.
"This trip highlighted some of the beautiful national parks, lands, and waters that make up our country," said First Lady Melania Trump. "Spending time outdoors with children and learning more about our incredible and complex surroundings was a very meaningful experience for me. I want to thank the people of Wyoming for making me feel so welcomed. I also want to thank the many dedicated organizations including Jackson District Boy Scouts and the National Park Service for all they do in protecting and taking care of our national parks."
  