
    SECURITY OFFICIALS
Former Secretary of Homeland Security Tom Ridge: "Kirstjen Nielsen is a homeland security veteran, who brings White House and DHS experience to the Secretary's role. She is extremely well versed in the all-hazard threats challenging the security and resilience of our homeland -- from cybersecurity and terrorism to natural disasters. Kirstjen can hit the ground running and there won't be a learning curve. Most importantly, in this hyper-political environment, Kirstjen is not a self-promoter. She is a patriot and takes a mission-focused approach to her work. I think her no-nonsense, business-like manner is what earned the confidence, first of General Kelly, and now the President."
Former Deputy National Security Adviser Juan Zarate: "Fantastic choice of Kirstjen Nielsen to lead @DHSgov. Worked w/her closely. Real expert, has respect of pros, Admin."
Former Homeland Security Adviser Frances Townsend: "Fabulous pick! Tough, smart, tenacious! ... First former @DHSgov employee to be Secretary! First #cyber expert to be member of Cabinet."
MEMBERS OF CONGRESS
Chairman of the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee Sen. Ron Johnson: "Ms. Nielsen's long history of service with the Department, her cybersecurity experience and her tenure serving with General John Kelly would serve her well as the next Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security."
Chairman of the House Homeland Security Committee Rep. Mike McCaul: "Kirstjen thoroughly understands the inner workings of the Department having served there twice and has extensive background in national security policy decision-making with her time in the White House. Both will prove very beneficial as she prepares to lead a diverse organization with such critical missions. I have full faith that she will serve the best interests of our nation and I remain committed to working shoulder to shoulder with her. I urge the U.S. Senate to swiftly confirm her to this vital role so we can finally secure our borders, better defend our cyber space, reauthorize DHS for the first time ever, and stop terror threats to the homeland."
Sen. Steve Daines: "Ms. Nielsen knows the Department inside and out and her experience will be beneficial in guiding Homeland Security forward, especially with her knowledge of cybersecurity issues."
Sen. Tom Tillis: ".@realDonaldTrump's nomination of Kirstjen Nielsen demonstrates admin's commitment to cybersecurity. Proven experience & widely respected."
  