
    Pool Reports by Tyler Pager, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




October 15, 202211:35 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #1: Motorcade rolling
The motorcade started rolling from the RON at 11:34
Pool loaded into the press van ahead of POTUS so we did not see him enter the Beast
We are headed to East Portland Community Center for the first of two events today.



October 15, 202211:58 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #2: East Portland Community Center arrival
The motorcade arrived at the community center at 11:49.
Several dozen protestors - advocating for different causes including anti-Marcos and anti-nuclear - lined the street outside.
Pool arrived as Sen. Wyden was speaking. He is joined on stage by Sen. Merkley and Rep. Bonamici.



October 15, 202212:00 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #3: speaking program
POTUS is expected to take the stage shortly. Some background from the White House below:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route East Portland Community Center:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North AfricaCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAlana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach
Participating in a photoline with the President at East Portland Community Center:
Senator Ron Wyden (OR)Senator Jeff Merkley (OR)Rep. Suzanne Bonamici (OR-1)Rob Wagner, Oregon State Senate Majority Leader (District 19)Dan Rayfield, Oregon State Speaker of the House (District 16)Andrea Valderrama, Oregon State Representative (District 47)Ellen Rosenblum, Oregon Attorney GeneralTobias Read, Oregon State TreasurerLacey Beaty, Mayor of Beaverton, ORDeborah Kafoury, Chair of Multnomah CountySusheela Jayapal, Multnomah County CommissionerCarmen Rubio, Parks Commissioner, City of Portland, OR
The President will deliver remarks on lowering costs for American families.
Speaking ProgramArlette Christain, Senior Director of Health & Older Adult Services, Urban League of PortlandThe President



October 15, 202212:26 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #4: POTUS entrance
POTUS entered the gymnasium at the community center at 12:24 and shook hands before jogging to the stage. The event is being live-streamed.
POTUS will speak after Arlette Christain, Senior Director of Health & Older Adult Services, Urban League of Portland.



October 15, 202213:00 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #5: POTUS remarks
POTUS began his remarks at 12:27 p.m.
The event was timed with the beginning of the Medicare open enrollment period, and POTUS spent much of the speech touting the provisions in the Inflation Reduction Act that will reduce prescription drug costs.
POTUS also praised the Oregon delegation in attendance, particularly calling out Sen. Wyden, who is running for re-election.
POTUS criticized Republicans for voting against the IRA and continued to call out Sen. Rick Scott and Sen. Ron Johnson over Medicare policy. (The White House also distributed the same pamphlets from yesterday on Scott's "12-point plan to rescue America.")
POTUS concluded his remarks at 12:51 and moved to the rope line to take selfies and shake hands.
Pool is stationed at the back of the room so our view of his interactions with attendees is limited.
Pool was pulled from the event before POTUS was half way through the rope line.



October 15, 202213:33 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #6: Motorcade rolling
The motorcade started rolling from the community center at 1:31.
We are headed to a reception for Tina Kotek.



October 15, 202213:48 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #7: Arrival at Kotek event
As we left the community center, the motorcade drove past a crowd of supporters, including adult dancers from a gentleman's club who were waving.
The motorcade arrived at the Pacific Northwest Carpenters Institute at 1:45. The pool is holding in the bus.
From the White House:
On the evening of Sunday October 16th, 2022, the north façade of the White House will be illuminated in pink in honor of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month.
Also on Sunday evening, as part of the Biden Administration's Cancer Moonshot[whitehouse.gov], First Lady Jill Biden will join cancer patients, survivors, and their families at the Dallas Cowboys vs. Philadelphia Eagles game at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia, PA. This game is dedicated to featuring the National Football League and the American Cancer Society's Crucial Catch [nfl.com] efforts to fight cancer through early detection and risk reduction. The First Lady will participate in Crucial Catch activities at the game alongside cancer patients, survivors, and their families.



October 15, 202215:01 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #8: POTUS at fundraiser
POTUS and Kotek walked onto the stage at 2:16 p.m.
Kotek introduced POTUS, praising his legislative accomplishment, his record of creating new jobs and fighting for working families.
POTUS began his remarks at 2:19.
Please check quotes against transcript as it was difficult to hear at times.
He opened by thanking Kotek as "gov" and then quickly saying he knew he was being a bit premature.
"You're going to be our next governor," he said.
"You got one of the best senators in the last four or five generations: Ron Wyden."
Speaking of Kotek's race, he said, "It's a race that matters well beyond the state of Oregon."
POTUS also spoke extensively about his first day at the White House and setting up the Oval Office. He said the outgoing president is supposed to leave by 10 am and he was not allowed to arrive until 2 pm.
"The good news is my guy never showed up anyway," he said.
POTUS then discussed the Oval Office decorations, saying he asked his brother, Jimmy, to set it up.
Jimmy worked with historian Jon Meacham and POTUS said he was struck when he noticed a portrait of FDR, not George Washington, hung over the fireplace. Previous presidents, he said, kept a portrait of Washington there.
Meacham told Biden he selected Roosevelt because of the historic challenges he faced. Meacham also selected a portrait of Lincoln, POTUS said, because the nation had not been so divided since the Civil War.
POTUS also criticized the number of election deniers running for elected office: "That's never happened before. Never in American history"
He expressed shock that candidates have to be asked will they accept the outcome of elections.
"The role of governors in America is increasing exponentially in terms of how the state's functioning"
"The reason I'm here is because Tina is a serious, serious consequential person"
"Think about who you elect governor. Are they prepared for the state to be pro-choice?"
"You have an articulate, tough, committed woman"
"It's up to the states now to make these judgments. You have a bunch of MAGA Republicans running."
"The only thing that puts us in fundamental jeopardy for real is global warming"
Putin's "tundra is melting" ... and warned of the methane that is being emitted from Russia.
Praised Kotek as someone who would be an ally in combatting climate change
"She's very practical. She knows what needs to be done."
"I think we should be funding police more, not less… we need more social workers."
POTUS criticized Republicans for saying they support the police but the. defend Jan. 6 rioters
"They think they support police and democracy," he said.
"As long as Trump controls the Republican Party, he's going to have an incredible impact on state legislative bodies" as well as state government
POTUS said the following policies were on the ballot this year: Right to choose. Right to privacy. Right to vote. Social security. Climate and democracy
Said Republicans' number one priority if they take control of Congress is to "do away with the Inflation Reduction Act."
Said Kotek has "the heart of a lion"
"She's rational. She's smart. She knows what needs to be done. She knows we need more police officers."
"She also knows those cops need different training"
On the infrastructure law, POTUS said, "It took a long time to get that sucker passed"
Said his proposals were doubted when he campaigned on them, but then whispered, "they all passed"
"You're a progressive state, you've always been ahead of the curve. Stay ahead of the curve and elect Tina."
POTUS completed his remarks at 2:45 and started to greet attendees as pool was ushered out.
Some color on the venue:
The event was held at the Pacific Northwest Carpenter's Institute, which bills itself as the "premier educational institution in Oregon, Southwest Washington and Idaho for carpenters and the affiliated trades."
POTUS spoke from a small stage at the front of the room. There were roughly 200 people, most of whom were seated in chairs. Some stood on the sides of the room. A table in the back had platters of Vietnamese food and jugs of coffee.
Sens. Ron Wyden and Jeff Merkley and Rep. Bonamici were in attendance.
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President at a reception for Tina Kotek:
Barbara Smith Warner, State Representative (District 45)Katherine Thu Lam, Port of Portland CommissionerTina Kotek, Candidate for Governor of Oregon
The President will participate in a reception for Tina Kotek:
Speaking ProgramTina Kotek, Candidate for Governor of OregonThe President



October 15, 202215:16 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #9: motorcade rolling
The motorcade started rolling from the Kotek event at 3:14 p.m.



October 15, 202215:24 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #10: Baskin Robbins stop
The motorcade made an unannounced stop at a local Baskin Robbins at 3:23. Pool is awaiting POTUS inside.



October 15, 202215:42 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #11: POTUS at Baskin Robbins and brief gaggle
POTUS walked into Baskin Robbins at 3:25 with Tina Kotek. He shook hands with three customers and took a selfie.
POTUS then moved over to the counter, pointed to a cone and ordered ice cream. He then put on his aviators.
POTUS told the pool he ordered the double dip chocolate chip in a waffle cone.
"This is the last stop" before the airport, he said.
"I feel good," when pool asked about how the trip went.
"I think she's going to win," he said of Kotek.
On 1/6 hearings: "I think the testimony and the video are actually devastating and I've been going out of my way not to comment."
"I think it's been devastating," he said.
He said he didn't want to comment further because he did not want people to think he was trying to influence the Attorney General.
"I'm not," he said.
When asked about the Evin Prison fire, POTUS said the Iranian "government is so oppressive"
Said he had "enormous amount of respect for people marching in the streets"
"Not a good group," he said of the Iranian government.
When asked about UK PM's economic plan, he said, "I wasn't the only one that thought it was a mistake." He calling the outcome "predictable"
He said he disagreed with Truss' plan but said it was up to the British people.
When asked about the strength of the dollar, he said, "I'm not concerned about the strength of the dollar. I'm concerned about the rest of the world"
"The problem is the lack of economic growth and sound policy in other countries," he added.
POTUS paid for his and Kotek's ice cream - the total was $8.57. He appeared to leave more than that but your pool could not see the exact amount.
POTUS and Kotek then greeted three customers, including a young girl.
POTUS was speaking quite softly so we could not hear the conversation. He leaned over toward the customers and whispered two times.
"Great to see you guys," POTUS said.
POTUS and Kotek left the store at 3:34 p.m.
Motorcade rolling at 3:36



October 15, 202215:57 PDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #12: Wheels up from Portland shortly
The motorcade arrived at the airport at 3:52.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 3:54 before pool got out of the vans.
Wheels up to Delaware shortly.



October 15, 202223:40 EDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #13: wheels down in Delaware
After an uneventful flight with no visitors to the press cabin, AF1 was wheels down in Wilmington at 11:30 pm EST.
POTUS walked off the plane at 11:38 and entered the Beast.
Motorcade rolling shortly



October 15, 202223:55 EDT

Out-of-Town Pool Report #14: Lid
The motorcade dropped POTUS at his home at 11:52 and a lid was called.
Have a good night and enjoy the rest of your weekend.
From the White House:
Greeting the President on arrival to Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Colonel Jason Christman, Delaware National Guard




  