
    The Clinton campaign announced today the formation of the Arkansas Women for Hillary Council. The Council is made up of women from across the state who will be active leaders in Arkansas, speaking to their friends, family and associates about this election, and helping to grow the network of women across America supporting Hillary Clinton's campaign.
This announcement is part of the campaign's week long focus on Women Changing America. During the week, the campaign is highlighting the decisive role women can play in this election, discussing issues important to women, and celebrating the ways that women are changing America everyday.
"In 35 years as an advocate for women, children and families, I know that women can make a powerful difference," Hillary said. "Women are changing America and I am so proud to welcome the Arkansas Women for Hillary Council to our campaign. Working together, we will address the issues of concern to women and families, and how we can make the changes America needs."
Members of the Arkansas Women for Hillary Council will join Hillary for a conference call this week. They are encouraged to be ambassadors for Hillary by reaching out to their networks on Hillary's behalf while also educating and empowering others to make history by making Hillary our 44th President.
"I have known Hillary Clinton since 1977, and know she is the kind of leader who will make us here in Arkansas proud. I believe Senator Clinton is the strongest and most promising candidate for President. She is the one candidate who can restore respect for America abroad immediately," said Jimmie Lou Fisher, former Arkansas State Treasurer.
Hillary kicked off the week with an appearance on The View and spoke at the Eleanor Roosevelt Legacy Committee's Annual Fall Campaign Luncheon in New York. On Tuesday, she traveled to New Hampshire to announce a new policy proposal to help parents balance work and family life. On Wednesday, nearly 1,000 women contributors from 47 states around the country will convene for a women's summit in support of the Clinton campaign – a full-day event that will raise well over $1 million. And on Thursday, Hillary will discuss the importance of health care for women when she participates in the Presidential Candidate Forums organized by the Federation of American Hospitals and Families USA and hosts a conference call with health care professionals from the American Medical Women's Association.
The week's events will underscores why Hillary enjoys such deep support among women voters by emphasizing how her strength and experience make her the candidate best able to deliver change on the issues most important to them.
The members of the Arkansas Women for Hillary Council reflect Hillary's vast and diverse supporters, spanning all occupations and communities.
The Arkansas Women for Hillary Council includes:


Kay Arnold, Little Rock
Brenda Bonds, Jonesboro
Elizabeth Bowles, Little Rock
Karla Bradley, Fayetteville
Sheila Galbraith Bronfman, Little Rock
Dr. Lynette Bryant, Little Rock
Wanda Bynum-Ashley, Little Rock
Joan Cash, Jonesboro
Sheila Castin, Little Rock
Marie Clinton Bruno, North Little Rock
Cynthia L Conger, Little Rock
Betty Cook, Sheridan
Jill Cox, Little Rock
Frances Cranford, Little Rock
Patty Criner, Little Rock
Cynthia Cross, Little Rock
Martha Dixon, Arkadelphia
Connie Fails, Little Rock
Susan Fleming, Little Rock
Sharyn Floyd, Fort Smith
Virginia Flynn, Little Rock
Tracey Dean Franks, Texarkana
Judy Gaddy, Little Rock
Karen Garcia, Hot Springs
Adella Gray, Fayetteville
Judy Gregory, Maumelle
Brenda Gullett, Fayetteville
Ann Hair, Hot Springs
Cindy Hale, De Queen
Bridgett Herndon, Sherwood
Betty Herron, Little Rock
Allene Higgins, Little Rock
Brittany Hillyer, Little Rock
Kaki Hockersmith, Little Rock
Marian Hodges, Little Rock
Mary Hughes, Fayetteville
Paula Irwin, Springdale
Stephanie Y Johnson, Little Rock
Myra Jones, Little Rock
Reefa Mahboob, Little Rock
Joann Martin, Little Rock
Pat McClelland, Little Rock
Amanda Miller, Little Rock
Shirley Montgomery, Conway
Blanche Moore Little Rock
Bailey Newcomb, Little Rock
Bonnie Nickol, Little Rock
Tina Osborn, Bradford
Berner Phyllis, Springdale
Judy Ramer, North Little Rock
Marci Riggs, Little Rock
Janet Roget, Little Rock
Mary Anne Salmon, North Little Rock
Marty Schaufele, Little Rock
Marth Shoffner, Little Rock
Susan F. Smith, Little Rock
Amy Lee Stewart, Little Rock
Mica Strother, Little Rock
Stephaine Tapp-Inman, Bald Knob
Patsy Thomasson, Little Rock
Jane Gray Todd, Sherwood
Dawne Vandiver, Little Rock
Trace Vickrey, North Little Rock
Charolette Wagner, Manila
Kathy Webb, Little Rock
Margaret M. Whillock, Little Rock
Jennifer Whitten, Little Rock
Anna Ruth Williams, Little Rock
Donna Willis, Batesville
Arma Woods, Montose
Cindy Young, Yellville
Patricia Youngdahl, Little Rock
List in formation...

  