
    
Helping to expand health coverage for millions of kids, standing up for women's rights on the world stage, helping 9/11 first responders ... and that's just the beginning.
Over her decades-long career in public service, Hillary has taken on her share of tough fights. Here are just a few of the biggest things she's accomplished.
1. Fought for children and families for 40 years and counting.

After law school, Hillary could have gone to work for a prestigious law firm, but took a job at the Children's Defense Fund. She worked with teenagers incarcerated in adult prisons in South Carolina and families with disabled children in Massachusetts. It sparked a lifelong passion for helping children live up to their potential.
2. Helped provide millions of children with health care.

As first lady of the United States, Hillary fought to help pass health care reform. When that effort failed, she didn't give up: Hillary worked with Republicans and Democrats to help create the Children's Health Insurance Program. CHIP cut the uninsured rate of American children by half, and today it provides health care to more than 8 million kids.
3. Helped get 9/11 first responders the health care they needed.

When terrorists attacked just months after Hillary became U.S. senator from New York, she worked to make sure the 9/11 first responders who suffered lasting health effects from their time at Ground Zero got the care they needed.
4. Told the world that "women's rights are human rights."

Standing in front of a U.N. conference and declaring that "women's rights are human rights" was more controversial than it sounds today. Many within the U.S. government didn't want Hillary to go to Beijing. Others wanted her to pick a less polarizing topic (you say polarizing, we say half the population). But Hillary was determined to speak out about human rights abuses, and her message became a rallying cry for a generation.
5. Stood up for LGBT rights at home and abroad.

As secretary of state, Hillary made LGBT rights a focus of U.S. foreign policy. She lobbied for the first-ever U.N. Human Rights Council resolution on human rights and declared that "gay rights are human rights." And here at home, she made the State Department a better, fairer place for LGBT employees to work.
6. Helped expand health care and family leave for military families.



Hillary worked across the aisle to expand health care access for members of the National Guard and reservists—making sure those who served and their families had access to health care when they returned home. And she worked to expand the Family Medical Leave Act, allowing families of those wounded in service to their country to take leave in order to care for their loved ones.
7. Negotiated a ceasefire between Israel and Hamas.

As our nation's chief diplomat, Hillary didn't back down when the stakes were high. As Hamas rockets rained down on Israel, Hillary went to the region immediately. Twenty-four hours after she landed, a ceasefire went into effect—and that year became Israel's quietest in a decade.
  