
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Diabetes mellitus is one of the most serious medical and public health problems challenging this Nation today. Approximately 11 million Americans suffer from this disease. Although careful treatment can control many of the short-term metabolic effects of diabetes, the disease is also associated with serious long-term complications that affect the eyes, kidneys, nervous system, and blood vessels. Physical, emotional, and financial consequences of this disease impose an enormous burden on its sufferers, their families, and the Nation in general. Diabetes-related health care, disability, and premature mortality alone cost more than $14 billion annually. The non-monetary costs are also staggering. Moreover, the prevalence of diabetes is increasing in the United States.
In recent years, there has been an enormous amount of progress in understanding, diagnosing, and treating diabetes. The National Diabetes Advisory Board, established by the Congress, has recently reported that "Not since the discovery of insulin over half a century ago has the outlook for clinical advances in the treatment and ultimate prevention and cure of diabetes been as promising as today." Researchers continue to discover clues to the causes of this disease and its complications. New and better forms of treatment are being developed and tested.
However, basic biomedical research and its translation into clinical practice still remain the bedrock of hope for discovering the ultimate answers to this complex disease and its myriad complications. The Federal government, in cooperation with the private sector, is deeply committed to supporting basic research on diabetes so that we can conquer this major public health problem for all present and future Americans.
To increase public awareness of diabetes and emphasize the need for continued research efforts, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 299, has designated the month of November 1984 as "National Diabetes Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that month.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of November 1984 as National Diabetes Month, and I call upon all government agencies and the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of October, in' the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  