
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced South Carolina College Students for Rudy, a coalition of students from across the state supporting Mayor Giuliani. Phil Paradise, a College of Charleston student, will serve as Chair of South Carolina Students for Rudy.
This grassroots coalition will help Mayor Giuliani share his vision of results oriented leadership around campuses across the state and will support the campaign through volunteer efforts and campus recruitment.
"Students across the country have grown up witnessing what Mayor Giuliani did to transform New York City and we saw him lead in times of crisis. It's exactly this kind of leadership that we are looking for in our next President to ensure that we all have opportunities to succeed," said Paradise.
"These students have been a big part of our early success in the state," said Barry Wynn, South Carolina State Chair for the Giuliani Campaign. "As the Mayor's campaign continues to attract supporters across the state we'll continue to rely on the enthusiasm of these young leaders to help Rudy win in South Carolina."
About State Chair Phil Paradise:
Phil Paradise is a senior at the College of Charleston. He is the Governor of the South Carolina Student Legislature and the Vice President of his Senior Class. He has a triple major in Political Science, Urban Studies and Historic Preservation.
South Carolina College Students for Rudy:
Elizabeth Louise Armstrong, Clemson University, Chapter Co-Chair
Reed Bjorkman, University of South Carolina Upstate, Chapter Chair
Laura Bolos, University of South Carolina
Patrick Ross Boylan, Clemson University, Chapter Chair
Joseph Brown, Medical University of South Carolina, Chapter Chair
Curtis Gerald Condra, Francis Marion University, Chapter Co-Chair
John Cornely, Wofford College, Chapter Chair
William Brice Dent, University of South Carolina
Charles Diez, College of Charleston, Chapter Co-Chair
Caroline R. Elliott, University of South Carolina
Elizabeth Ann Ellis, University of South Carolina
Elise Christine Ewing, University of South Carolina
Alexandra Rane Gehringer, University of South Carolina, Chapter Co-Chair
Anthony J. Gentile, The Citadel, Chapter Chair
Kate Marie Hansson, University of South Carolina
Andrew G.B. Heath, College of Charleston Law School, Chapter Chair
Christopher E. Holder, University of South Carolina
Patrick Lee Laban, Francis Marion University, Chapter Co-Chair
Jonathon M. Mahler, Coastal Carolina University, Chapter Co-Chair
Margaret-Ellen McDermott, Converse College, Chapter Chair
Kelly Marie McDonough, Clemson University, Chapter Co-Chair
Mallory Jeanne Morris, Winthrop University, Chapter Chair
Benjamin Matthew Pangle, Clemson University
Phillip Paradise, College of Charleston, State Chair
Donald Phillips, Clemson University
Kimberly M. Rizzo, University of South Carolina
Rachel Salerno, Clemson University
Brian John Stevenson, Furman University, Chapter Chair
Amanda Stewart, College of Charleston, Chapter Co-Chair
Andrew Symmes, Clemson University
Cassandra Tressler, Coastal Carolina University, Chapter Co-Chair
Elizabeth Hunter Turner, University of South Carolina
Kathryn E. Ware, University of South Carolina
Kimberly Watson, University of South Carolina, Chapter Co-Chair
Terence Whitehead, Coastal Carolina University, Chapter Chair
Michael Whitsitt, Charleston Southern University, Chapter Chair
Glen R. Wieger, University of South Carolina, Chapter Chair
  