
    I've been trying to define the geographical area represented here. I've noticed that Cyprus is present, and Mongolia is present, and the Philippines is present, and Korea is present, Vietnam is present. I've not quite yet gotten oriented about which particular part of the world this luncheon is supposed to encompass.
But I do see one or two things in common. One is that the ancient civilizations of the world are represented here--the fountainhead for knowledge and science and education, mathematics, medicine, culture, music, art, drama. And it's a very stimulating and exciting thing for me to meet representatives of those historic peoples who have meant so much to the formation of human society.
I've also noticed that many of you represent countries that are quite new, having been formed only in recent years. But you've been able to bridge the gap between an ancient civilization of your peoples' heritage and also a new form of government.
I notice also that many of you have moved strongly toward a concept of preservation of human freedoms and the right of people to be treated well. I've noticed expansion of the definition of human rights in my own consciousness to encompass the right of someone to have a place to work and a place to live and an education and an absence of disease, and, perhaps, an alleviation of hunger. And I know that in many countries of the world represented here, those are ever-present problems for you as they are even for a wealthy and powerful nation like the United States.
I've also observed that it's important for us to have good. relations with you, not just politically and in a military way but also for commercial advantages. We have about $75 billion in trade with your countries every year. And this encompasses the most rudimentary raw materials as well as the most advanced electronics and automotive technology. And it's crucial to us to have your friendship and your understanding and a constant means of communication and consultation with your nations.
I know that in the brief time that I've been President, I have personally asked you or your own national leaders to help with bilateral and multilateral and regional problems. And the constructive attitude that you have taken in forming either transient or permanent partnerships with us is very important indeed.
We also have changing relationships with many of your nations. In Southeast Asia we are trying to repair the damages of recent war and stretch out a hand of friendship to those countries with whom in the past we have had animosity.
A few of you are nations where we don't yet enjoy full diplomatic relations. We would like to establish those diplomatic exchanges with you without delay so that we might probe to alleviate the differences that divide us and also assess and take advantage of the common problems that we can address together. So, we are eager to proceed to repair the damages of the past and to approach the future in a spirit of friendship and cooperation.
In parts of your world, economic development is the most important part of your national purposes, and we want to be a part of that, because when your people's progress is enhanced, it helps the life of everyone who lives in my own country.
In the Middle East, I've spent a great deal of time in the last 9 months working with many of you represented here and have been encouraged so far with the prospects for ultimate success. What seemed to be despair and an absence of communication and consultation a year ago is now, I think, improved. And it will require flexible attitudes on the part of countries that in the past have been inflexible and confidence in one's neighbors where in the past confidence has been completely absent.
And I hope and expect a growing trust in our own good offices to help bring the parties together to arrive at mutual peace, because a war in the Middle East could be a devastating blow to the entire world.
These opportunities that we have together are very important to me, and I'm honored and pleased to be part of this luncheon. I have a lot to learn. I'm new in national political affairs. I'm an eager student, and I would always welcome a chance to learn from you.
We value the friendship that has been exhibited here in this room. And my dream is that this kind of relationship that exists in the United Nations environment might, ultimately, spread to the national capitals and, I think, mirror accurately the natural friendship which the peoples of the world have toward one another. It's leaders like myself and, perhaps, some of your own leaders that might be an obstacle to the realization of peace which exists in the hearts of those whom we represent. And it's incumbent upon us always to search for those openings and opportunities when they present themselves.
I am also grateful, as the President of our host country here, of your presence in the United Nations. I'm determined, during my own term in the White House, to do everything I can to strengthen the role that the United Nations plays in helping the lives of our people. And I will depend in a more deeply committed way, each year that I am in office, in using the good services of the United Nations and letting the people of our country realize what already occurs here.
I think very few Americans know the broad scope of good services that is a daily contribution of the special committees of the United Nations in civil aeronautical safety and in the protection of our people against nuclear proliferation and expanding the health care around the world--better chance for children, the alleviation of hunger.
These kinds of projects, which are a constant responsibility of mine in the United States, are carried on around the world in a routine fashion by the special agencies of the United Nations. But quite often the nations that support the U.N. with financial contributions don't realize the tremendous return that we get on our investment in the United Nations itself.
So, in the establishment of peace, in the alleviation of regional problems, in the sharing of contributions, which we all are eager to make, I know that you realize along with me that the United Nations plays an integral role.
Again, let me thank you for coming to this luncheon. I hope that you'll give Andy Young your constant friendship and advice and counsel, criticism when he deserves it. [Laughter]
I meet with Ambassador Young every Monday morning. He's a part of our Cabinet structure. We use his influence among you, and you can use his influence with me to make sure that this transient luncheon is transformed into a permanent intercommunication and strong relationship.
Thank you again for being here.
  