
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The United States has long been a leader in efforts to end world hunger. Through a number of public and private programs, the American people have given generously of this Nation's abundant agricultural goods. We have also provided economic and technical assistance to foreign countries to help them increase their food production and promote needed economic development.
Despite these and other efforts, however, hunger and malnutrition remain chronic problems in many countries. While famines arouse deep and widespread concern, the problem of chronic hunger often receives far less attention, even though it affects more people. It is estimated that some 700 million people in developing countries--up to 60 percent of the population in the world's poorest countries--are affected by chronic hunger.
The problem of chronic hunger is as large and complex as it is compelling. Its causes vary. Some countries lack sufficient food supplies because of inadequate agricultural production--a problem readily attributed to adverse weather patterns, but one that is, in fact, often caused by centralized government planning, which eliminates farmers' incentives to produce bountiful crops. In countries where adequate food supplies may be available, political strife and civil war often disrupt or prevent their distribution. Moreover, in a number of developing countries, the natural resources base on which sustainable agriculture depends is being degraded. Forests are being destroyed, and soils are being depleted through erosion. Such losses pose a major long-term risk to the ability of those countries to feed their citizens.
While the causes of chronic hunger vary, its effects are always the same: hunger and malnutrition contribute to a vicious cycle of poverty and limited human development. Without adequate nutrition, good health is impossible. Without good health, man cannot maintain high levels of learning and productivity. Alleviating hunger is thus vital to the well-being of both individuals and nations.
The United States is working to help developing countries increase their food production though market-oriented, sustainable agricultural and rural development activities. We continue to share our agricultural surpluses with hungry people overseas through our Food for Peace and other assistance programs, such as the World Food Program. America is the largest donor of food aid, contributing annually more than 8 million tons of food worth more than $1.7 billion to hungry people overseas. Because any effective answer to chronic hunger must include measures to promote broad-based, sustainable economic growth, we are also encouraging the development of market-oriented policies that harness the creative power of individual initiative and free enterprise.
In addition to efforts abroad, the United States is also engaged in hunger relief activities at home. Government officials, health care professionals, educators, and religious congregations, as well as members of community groups and other private voluntary organizations, have been working to promote public awareness of the extent of chronic hunger, its causes, and its consequences. This year the U.S. Government is providing nearly $25 billion worth of food assistance to needy Americans--many of whom are children. Individual volunteers and private donors are generously supporting canned food drives, food banks, and soup kitchens for the homeless. For example, this fall the Boy Scouts of America--recently recognized with a Presidential End Hunger Award--will be conducting a canned food drive that is expected to yield nearly 100 million items of food for people in need.
As an expression of our collective commitment to the fight against hunger, the United States joined 150 other countries in observing World Food Day on October 16, 1990. Related educational activities have been, and will continue to be, conducted throughout the month.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 342, has designated October 1990 as "Ending Hunger Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 1990 as Ending Hunger Month. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  