
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

During 1993 the world has embarked on new trails to expand humanity's horizons and to promote the betterment of the human condition. As we look with hope to the future, we also pay homage to our past and to those who have helped shape our Nation and continent. It is therefore fitting that the voyages of Christopher Columbus be remembered. I welcome this opportunity to salute this man of great courage, who, in defiance of popular myth and hardship, had the vision to explore the unknown.
Even though the Quincentennial celebrations of Columbus' landfall are past, it is still our duty to promote understanding between the old and new worlds. It is important to commemorate the mutual discovery of Europeans and Native Americans and the transformations, through toil and pain, that gave birth to brave new hopes for a better future.
For the United States, it is especially significant that we recognize the daring voyages of Christopher Columbus. As a people whose land was founded on dreams, we proceed today, just as Columbus did, with courage to overcome obstacles and search for new paths to lead us into an unknown, but promising, future.
Many people in the United States have special reason to remember and celebrate the histories of the old and new worlds. America, a Nation of diverse peoples, has been enriched by the blending of many heritages. Americans of international descent, along with Native Americans, have contributed mightily to molding the framework of our great land, united by our allegiance to the principles of equality, democracy, and freedom. We all take justifiable pride in our accomplishments and dedicate ourselves to the pursuit of our dreams.
In tribute to Columbus' achievement, the Congress of the United States by joint resolution of April 30, 1934 (48 Stat. 657), and an Act of June 28, 1968 (82 Stat. 250), has requested the President to proclaim the second Monday in October of each year as "Columbus Day."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 11, 1993, as Columbus Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. I also direct that the flag of the United States be displayed on all public buildings on the appointed day in honor of Christopher Columbus.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  