
    Ting & Soo To Serve As California Co-Chairs Of AAPIs For Hillary
Hillary Clinton for President announced the endorsement of San Francisco Assessor-Recorder Phil Ting and Julie D. Soo, chair of the California Democratic Party's Asian and Pacific Islander Caucus today. Ting and Soo will serve as California Co-Chairs of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) for Hillary.
"There is no doubt in my mind that out of all the Democratic candidates, Hillary Clinton is the one person most qualified to be the next President of the United States and I strongly support her candidacy," said Assessor-Recorder Ting. "As California Co-Chair, I will work to encourage the state's AAPI community to support Hillary Clinton and cast their vote for her on February 5, 2008.
According to the Census Bureau, the AAPI community is the fastest growing ethnic group in the country and currently represents five percent of the total population. In California alone, the number of AAPIs eligible to vote has more than doubled from 1990 to 2005. Currently, there are 2.5 million eligible AAPI voters in California, representing 12 percent of California voters.
"The AAPI community has an opportunity to make a real difference in this presidential election, especially in California," said Soo. "Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to address the issues facing our community including improving education, providing all Americans with quality, affordable health care, and finally fixing our broken immigration system."
Phil Ting was appointed as Assessor-Recorder in July 2005 and then subsequently won an election for the position in November 2005. As Assessor-Recorder, Ting is committed to improving city services and ensuring that taxes collected fund for departments including police, fire, public schools, health, neighborhood services, libraries and social programs.
Soo was elected Statewide Chair of the California Democratic Party's Asian and Pacific Islander Caucus in 2005 and was re-elected in 2007. In 2001, she joined the California Department of Insurance in as staff counsel and is charged with prosecuting enforcement cases among her regulatory duties.
"I am honored to have the support of Phil Ting and Julie D. Soo and I'm pleased that they have agreed to serve as California Co-Chairs of AAPIs for Hillary," said Clinton. "I'm confident that with Phil and Julie's leadership, we will run a very competitive campaign in California."
Phil Ting and Julie D. Soo join State Board of Equalization Member Judy Chu, California State Assemblywoman and Majority Whip Fiona Ma, Assemblymembers Michael Eng and Mary Hayashi as well as Alicia Wang, Vice Chair, Democratic National Committee as California co-chairs of AAPIs for Hillary.
  