
    We will work every day to ensure all Americans have access to the quality, affordable medication they need and they deserve.President Donald J. Trump
HELPING PATIENTS SAVE MONEY: President Donald J. Trump is signing legislation to help give patients more information to save on their prescription drugs. 

Gag clauses prevent pharmacists from telling patients when they would pay less for drugs out of their own pocket instead of using their insurance.
President Trump is signing legislation ending "gag clauses," following through on his promise to end these unfair clauses and help save patients money on the drugs they need.

The President is signing the Know the Lowest Price Act and the Patient Right to Know Drug Prices Act to end gag clauses for patients on Medicare and private plans.
The President's blueprint for lowering drug prices and reducing out-of-pocket costs called for an end to "gag clauses."



LOWERING DRUG PRICES: The President is working to deliver savings for American patients. 

President Trump has made lowering drug prices a priority for his Administration and has taken action to achieve this goal.
The Food and Drug Administration approved the most generic drug applications ever in 2017.

These approvals saved patients an estimated $8.8 billion in 2017 alone.
These savings are estimated to jump to $16 billion over one full year after each generic approval in 2017.


In May 2018, President Trump released an American Patients First blueprint to lower drug prices and reduce out-of-pocket costs.

This blueprint laid out strategies for reform, including improved competition, better negotiation, incentives for lower list prices, and lowering out-of-pocket costs.


Fifteen large drug manufacturers responded to the President's blueprint by announcing price freezes, reductions, and rollbacks.
The Trump Administration finalized changes to Medicare's payment rate for certain drugs that will save seniors an estimated $320 million in drug costs this year.

PROTECTING SENIORS' HEALTHCARE: President Trump will fight against so-called "Medicare for All" proposals that would take away benefits seniors have paid into all their lives. 

While some have rallied around a proposal that would end Medicare as we know it, President Trump will fight to ensure seniors receive the benefits into which they have paid.

This proposal would lead to an extreme, anti-senior, anti-choice, and anti-consumer government takeover of health care.


This so-called "Medicare for All" proposal would establish a government run, single-payer healthcare system that experts estimate would cost $32 trillion.

Even doubling taxes wouldn't be enough to pay for this astonishing price-tag.


Supporters of "Medicare for All" would have no choice but to cut benefits, raise economy-crippling taxes, or both to cover the massive cost

Many seniors would lose access to their favorite doctors and face long lines for appointments and procedures.


"Medicare for All" would eliminate Medicare Advantage plans for millions of seniors and take away seniors' options for private supplemental coverage.

  