
    Steyer will also debut another ad this week highlighting his two-year grassroots campaign calling for Trump's impeachment

Click the image above to watch "The Right Thing" ad
(SAN FRANCISCO, October 8, 2019) — Today, presidential candidate for the Democratic nomination Tom Steyer launched two new ad campaigns showing there is nothing more powerful than the unified voices of the American people.
The first ad campaign — "Talk to Trump" — will air over five days on Fox & Friends, each day showing a new set of American people raising their voices and telling Trump exactly what matters most to them, and how much he has failed them as president. The ads follow as Steyer's campaign urged the American people to submit their videos addressing Trump last week, as part of an innovative way to give people the power to talk directly to Trump. The ad campaign points to a larger focus on Steyer's presidential bid to give more power to the American people.
The second ad campaign, "The Right Thing", highlights Steyer's work in the last two years, vehemently calling for Trump's impeachment, even when every candidate for president and career Washington politicians deemed it too soon because it was politically inconvenient. Steyer worked and advocated for what the majority of Americans agree on now — that this corrupt and lawless president must be held accountable for his litany of crimes, because it is the right thing to do. The ad will air in the early primary and caucus states of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and Nevada.
"Donald Trump is the most corrupt president in our nation's history. When I called for his impeachment two years ago, Washington insiders and every candidate for president said it was too soon," Steyer said in the ad. "I believed then, as I do now, that doing the right thing was more important than political calculations. And over 8 million people agreed. We proved that there is no challenge that Americans can't meet when we work together."
For two years, Steyer has called for Trump's impeachment and built a grassroots movement of over 8.3 million supporters. Both ad campaigns follow Nancy Pelosi's announcement that the House of Representatives will begin a formal impeachment inquiry last week.
  