
    Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Holyoake, Ambassador Wiggins and Mrs. Wiggins, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
In New Zealand 2 years ago, Mrs. Johnson and I were honored to spend the evening at the Government House in Wellington. Members of my staff and the large press corps, who supervise my activities and guard my presence at all times, were put up for the evening on a very wonderful old ship anchored in the harbor. I heard later that in the wee hours of the morning they christened their floating hotel, "The Tiltin' Hilton." I am delighted Mr. Hilton is here with us tonight to celebrate that occasion.
I also heard another story about that evening in Wellington. The American press corps was invited to a performance by the native Maoris. The dancers and the singers-after singing their traditional melodies--all dressed up in sarongs and body paint, and they sang some western numbers that were set to words of their own language.
The first song was "Happy Days Are Here Again." One American journalist in the audience, a lady journalist, was particularly astonished. Journalists sometimes are. But her father had written the original lyrics. And now decades later, in a world away, there she was hearing the song in that ancient tribal language.
The point of the story, I think, is quite simple even to all of us simple people. That is, our world is very, very small and it is getting smaller all the time. The peoples of the earth are brought closer together every day, not only by jets and communications satellites, but by the gifts of culture that merge all men into one community.
One man who helped to open up and strengthen the world, I think, deserves very special recognition on this occasion here tonight. It was exactly 199 years ago tonight, on October 9, 1769, that Captain James Cook, and his shipmates on the Endeavor, landed at Poverty Bay on the North Island of New Zealand. They were the first Europeans to set foot on the soil of New Zealand.
The voyages of Captain Cook were not only heroic, but historic. He traversed the Pacific from ice in the south to ice in the north.
On his last voyage he rediscovered the Hawaiian Islands and struck the North American coast at what is now our State of Oregon.
Before he met his death in Hawaii, he had drawn the map of the entire Pacific. He drew the map, but the world has changed.
As you observed this morning, Mr. Prime Minister, the free nations of the world must now depend on each other as they have never depended before. Our cultures, our defenses, our common welfare are tightly woven.
The voyages of Captain Cook were extensive, heroic, and historic, but with the help of Mr. Grosvenor, I am going to give him some competition. After January 21 I am going to turn Lady Bird loose with the map of the National Geographic, and we are going to hear about islands that she discovered that Captain Cook overlooked.
But our cultures and our welfare, as I said, are tightly woven, and New Zealanders, I am proud to say, always practice what they preach.
The New Zealanders are a member of ANZUS and SEATO. Your contribution to the United Nations forces in Korea was, on a per capita basis, second only to America.
You have now for more than 12 years maintained forces in the Malay Peninsula as part of the Commonwealth Strategic Reserves.
Your sons stand tonight shoulder to shoulder with ours and with those of the Republic of Korea, Thailand, Australia, and the Philippines in a common effort to try, in the face of common danger, to deter ruthless aggression and to help preserve the freedom of a little nation--the gallant people of South Vietnam.
New Zealand has also played a very active part in the growth of regional cooperation: --You were a founding member of the Colombo Plan. Since 1950, you have contributed more than $50 million to the development of countries in South and Southeast Asia.
--You participate in the Asian and Pacific Council.
--You are a partner in the Asian Development Bank.
--You participate in the United Nations programs.
--You take a more than active interest in the many regional groupings and projects that are such a striking feature today and offer us so much hope in the new Asia.
Because New Zealand and the United States of America and other peace-loving nations all over the world have recognized that nations just must help each other, the peoples of the world tonight have made great progress in their struggle for a better life for all human beings.
For example, in Japan and the Republic of China and South Korea and Thailand, the progress of today is astonishing when we look at the odds of yesterday.
So, it gives us very strong hope for even greater success, even greater progress for the peoples of this earth, when tomorrow's victories are calculated.
Mr. Prime Minister, we Americans are very proud to share with you this expectation, and the purpose that inspires it.
We are very proud of our staunch and our farsighted and our courageous friends in New Zealand. You have never wavered. You have never grown soft. You have never feared.
You are a small nation. You visited Los Angeles early this week, a city that has more people, in one city, than you have in your own country.
But that did not deter you from committing men and bodies and lives of your very best to the defense of freedom, when that commitment was necessary and when it was needed.
So, Mr. Prime Minister, you and your charming wife, we welcome you here to the White House. We are proud that your lovely lady could again visit us in this country.
We look to you as symbolic of a good people, of a good country, of a dependable ally, and we look to you with great admiration. And if I might say so, with great gratitude.
So ladies and gentlemen, I ask all of you to join me in a toast to Her Majesty, the Queen--to Her Majesty the Queen.
Mr. Prime Minister, we thank you so very, very much for bringing back to us tonight one of your most distinguished citizens, your former Ambassador and distinguished Foreign Minister, and we also want to thank you for the quality of your representation in our Capital tonight--the Ambassador from New Zealand, Frank Corner.
  