
    
  Earns Endorsement of Pastor Tim Lubinus

HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today welcomed the endorsement of church missions leader and former missionary Tim Lubinus of Ames, Iowa, who serves as the Executive Director of the Baptist Convention of Iowa.*
"I am honored to welcome Pastor Lubinus to our team," said Cruz. "His commitment to Christ, and passion for seeing people of faith engage every aspect of the world around them, is reminiscent of the bold pastors who played such a key role in the founding of America."
"I believe Ted Cruz is the candidate that above all others is a bold champion of liberty, is best qualified to be president, and has the resources to develop a nationwide organization to win," Pastor Lubinus said. "I want to encourage pastors to step forward and to engage in the political process. We do not relinquish our civic responsibilities when we enter ministry. On the contrary, our love for Christ and our fellow man should motivate us to action all the more."
Lubinus will be active with the Statewide Leadership Team, and the "99 Iowa Pastors" coalition as the Cruz campaign continues to organize in the state of Iowa.
A native Iowan, Lubinus was baptized while attending Iowa State University and became a member of Grand Avenue Baptist Church. Tim, his wife Darlene, and their children served as foreign missionaries in South Korea and Central Asia, where Tim started, led, and expanded a team of more than 100 International Missionary Board (IMB) missionaries in 12 cities, while serving as the strategy associate on IMB's Central Asia regional leadership team. In 2005, Tim also became a trainer for ministry supervisors in Central Asia. The Lubinuses later returned to Ames, where Tim served as the regional and global ministry director at Cornerstone Church for eight years before being appointed as the Executive Director for the Baptist Convention of Iowa in March of 2014. Pastor Lubinus earned a master of divinity degree from Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary and a Doctor of Ministry degree from Midwestern Baptist Theological Seminary in Kansas City.
*Organization listed for information purposes only.
  