
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Thanks to the nearly 46,000 occupational therapists and their assistants in the United States, millions of Americans with potentially disabling conditions are able to lead productive, fulfilling lives. On this occasion, we salute this dedicated group of health care professionals and acknowledge the importance of their work.
According to the Department of Health and Human Services, each year practitioners of occupational therapy treat more than 7,500,000 children and adults whose lives have been disrupted by physical injury or illness, developmental problems, the aging process, or psychosocial difficulties such as substance abuse. Occupational therapists work in a variety of settings, including hospitals, schools, nursing facilities, rehabilitation and mental health centers, and community and migrant health clinics, as well as through independent practices and home health agencies. After Operation Desert Storm, occupational therapy practitioners joined in providing a wide range of rehabilitation services and programs for our veterans. Whatever the setting or individual need, occupational therapy practitioners are united by their commitment to high quality patient care.
Tracing its roots as far back as the 15th century, when physicians observed that patients who performed daily chores recovered much more quickly than their idle counterparts, occupational therapy has evolved into a multifaceted health care discipline. Today we salute the men and women who have chosen to serve their fellowman through this profession.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 471, has designated October 14, 1992, as "National Occupational Therapy Day" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 14, 1992, as National Occupational Therapy Day. I invite all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  