
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
William Beach of Kansas to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics, Department of Labor, for a term of 4 years. Mr. Beach is the Vice President for Policy Research at the Mercatus Center at George Mason University. Mr. Beach previously served as the Chief Economist for the Senate Budget Committee, Republican Staff. Prior to that position, he was the Lazof Family Fellow in Economics at the Heritage Foundation and director of the Center for Data Analysis. Prior to joining Heritage in 1995, Mr. Beach served as a senior economist in the corporate headquarters of Sprint United, Inc., and, from 1991 to 1995, as the president of the Institute for Humane Studies at George Mason University. A graduate of Washburn University in Topeka, Kansas, Mr. Beach also holds a master's degree in history and economics from the University of Missouri-Columbia and a Ph.D. in Economics from Buckingham University in Great Britain.
Irving Dennis of Ohio to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Dennis recently retired as a Global Client Service Partner with Ernst & Young, LLP where he served as the coordinating assurance partner on several large multinational public companies in various industries. He has an in-depth understanding of business and financial risk and extensive experience advising audit committees and C-suite executives on global corporate governance, financial, and internal control matters. His experience includes finance transformations, enterprise risk management and corporate governance. In addition, Mr. Dennis has held several leadership roles within EY including a Regional Audit Methodology Leader and a member of a Regional Assurance Leadership Team. Mr. Dennis earned a B.S. Degree in business administration-accounting from Montclair State University and is a Certified Public Accountant. He serves on several not-for-profit boards and has been a member of various accounting-related organizations. Mr. Dennis lives in New Albany, Ohio, with his wife and two children.
Steven Gardner of Kentucky to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement. Mr. Gardner is President and CEO of ECSI, LLC, a consulting firm where he has focused on natural resources, mining, reclamation, energy, environmental, and health and safety issues. In 2011, he was inducted into the College of Engineering Hall of Distinction. As a licensed professional engineer, Mr. Gardner has worked on projects throughout the United States and internationally. He was the 2015 President of the Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration (SME). He has served on the UK Mining Engineering Foundation, Kentucky Geological Survey, Biosystems & Agricultural Engineering Advisory Boards, and was a member of the Kentucky Board of Licensure for Professional Engineers and Surveyors. Mr. Gardner has an M.S. in Mining Engineering with a Graduate Certification in Environmental Systems and a B.S. in Agricultural Engineering from the University of Kentucky.
Kenneth L. Marcus of Virginia to be the Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights, Department of Education. Mr. Marcus is currently President and General Counsel of the Louis D. Brandeis Center for Human Rights Under Law. He previously served as Staff Director of the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights and was delegated the authority of Assistant Secretary of Education for Civil Rights under President George W. Bush. He also previously served as the Lillie and Nathan Ackerman Chair in Equality and Justice in America at the City University of New York's Baruch College School of Public Affairs. Mr. Marcus is a graduate of the University of California at Berkeley School of Law and Williams College.
M. Lee McClenny of Washington to be Ambassador Extraordinary & Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay. Mr. McClenny, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, began his public service with the U.S. Information Agency in 1986. He is currently the Chargé d'Affaires e.p. of the U.S. Embassy in Caracas, Venezuela. He has previously served overseas in Kuala Lumpur, Montreal, Manila, London, Brussels, Guatemala City, Belgrade and Ottawa, as well as in leadership positions at the Department of State and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Mr. McClenny is a recipient of the Presidential Meritorious Service Award, and numerous performance awards from the Department of State and U.S. Information Agency. He received a B.A. from the University of Washington, and speaks Spanish, French, and some Serbo-Croatian and Russian.
Carlos Trujillo of Florida to be the Permanent Representative of the United States to the Organization of American States with the rank of Ambassador. Mr. Trujillo has been the Florida State Representative for the 105th District in the Florida House of Representatives, Tallahassee, Florida since 2010. An attorney, he simultaneously has been the Founding Partner of Trujillo, Vargas, Gonzalez and Hevia LLP since 2011 and President of Carlos Trujillo, PA, since 2007. Previously, he served as a Florida Assistant State Attorney at the Miami Dade County State Attorney's Office in Miami from 2007 to 2011. He also has been a Board Member of the Public Health Trust of Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami. Mr. Trujillo earned a B.S. from Spring Hill College in Mobile, Alabama and a J.D. from Florida State College of Law in Tallahassee. He speaks fluent Spanish.
Peter Hendrick Vrooman of New York to be Ambassador Extraordinary & Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Rwanda. Mr. Vrooman, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1991. He most recently served as Chargé d'Affaires from 2016 to 2017 and Deputy Chief of Mission from 2014 to 2016 at the U.S. Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Mr. Vrooman has held senior positions with the Department of State at home and at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations, as well as overseas. He has served at seven embassies in Africa, the Near East and South Asia. Mr. Vrooman possesses a deep knowledge of East African issues, expertise in UN peacekeeping, strong management and public diplomacy credentials, and economic/commercial advocacy experience. He earned a M.S from the National Defense University's Industrial College of the Armed Forces, and a B.A. from Harvard College. He speaks French and Arabic.
The following individuals to be Members of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service:

Calvin R. Tucker of Pennsylvania, for the remainder of a term expiring December 8, 2023.
Robert M. Duncan of Kentucky, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring December 8, 2018, and an additional term expiring December 8, 2025.
David Williams of Illinois, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring December 8, 2019.

-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Personnel to Key Administration Posts
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Eddie Joe Williams of Arkansas will serve as the Federal Representative to the Southern States Energy Board.
John Zangardi of Pennsylvania will serve as be Chief Information Officer, Department of Homeland Security. Dr. Zangardi has extensive experience in information technology and security. Most recently, Dr. Zangardi served as the Acting Chief Information Officer at the Department of Defense. He previously served as the Principal Deputy Department of Defense Chief Information Officer. His career also includes experience in acquisition, policy, legislative affairs, resourcing, and operations. Dr. Zangardi is a retired Naval Flight Officer and served in a variety of command and staff assignments. Since his retirement from the Navy, he has held several senior executive positions at the Department of the Navy, including as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Command, Control, Communications, Computers, Intelligence, Information Operations, and Space and as the Department of Navy Chief Information Officer. Dr. Zangardi holds a bachelor's degree from the University of Scranton, master's degree from the Naval Postgraduate School, and Doctor of Philosophy degree from George Mason University.
The following individuals will serve as Members of the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:

Pamella DeVos of Michigan.
Frederick Davis Jubitz of Oregon.
Michael S. Lorber of New York.
Anne N. Reyes of Florida.
Stephanie Spencer of California.
Frank Giordano of New Jersey.
Vance Thompson of South Dakota.
Geoffrey K. Verhoff of Virginia.

-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Designate David Kautter to the Internal Revenue Service
David Kautter of Virginia to be the Acting Commissioner of Internal Revenue. This designation will become effective on November 13, 2017. Mr. Kautter was confirmed on August 3, 2017, to be the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, Tax Policy.
  