
    
  

ENDORSEMENT:
CONSERVATIVE ICON & FORMER U.S. SENATOR GORDON HUMPHREY THINKS JOHN KASICH SHOULD BE PRESIDENT
Joined by New Hampshire Political Leader Peter Thomson
Today New Hampshire conservative political icon and former U.S. Senator Gordon Humphrey, together with longtime political and government leader Peter Thomson, endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich for President, pointing to his success as a conservative fiscal reformer and commitment to strengthening America's military as proof that he has the ability to lead the revival that America needs.
"I‘ve known John Kasich since our time together in Congress. I greatly admired and liked him then, and my admiration has only grown during his highly acclaimed five years as Governor of our nation's seventh-largest state. I can sum up John Kasich in three Cs. Character. Conservative principles. Competence and experience I completely trust. Impressive as the other candidates may be, no other candidate can match John Kasich. I recommend him enthusiastically to Granite Staters," said Humphrey.
"Governor Kasich is a proven reformer and a conservative fiscal leader without parallel. As someone who has worked extensively in state government, I know how hard it can be to make big changes while still bringing people together, which is why John Kasich's record of results stands apart so much. He is the leader our country needs and I'm proud to be part of his team to make that happen," said Thomson.
Humphrey was a grassroots conservative leader who won election to the U.S. Senate from New Hampshire in 1978 and served two terms. Despite his popularity he did not run again as he pledged to only serve 12 years. In the Senate he was a member of the Senate Armed Services and the Foreign Relations committees and was a strong fiscal conservative. Today he lives in Chichester, New Hampshire with his wife Patricia and their two sons.
Thomson served as chief of staff to his father, three-term Gov. Meldrim Thomson, director of the NH Department of Highway Safety and in the administrations of President Reagan and President Bush. He lives in Orford, NH and runs his family's maple syrup business, one of the largest in the state.
Humphrey's announcement is a major addition to Kasich's dominant New Hampshire organization, which is led by former U.S. Senator John Sununu as well as political leader Tom Rath, NH House Majority Leader Jack Flanagan, state Sen. David Boutin, Doug and Stella Scamman, Nancy Merrill, Ruth Griffin and others. Nationally, Kasich continues to build an impressive list of supporters including former U.S. Senate Majority Leader Trent Lott (R-MS), New York political icon & former U.S. Senator Alfonse D'Amato, Alabama Gov. Robert Bentley, Mississippi Congressman Gregg Harper, former Iowa House Speaker Brent Siegrist and others.
"Senator Humphrey is a force for conservative ideas and a staunch defender of our Constitution whose influence continues to this day. Not only is he a strong advocate for the sanctity of life but he is also a strong fiscal conservative and an expert on national security and foreign policy. As Americans we need to rededicate ourselves to the truth that strength leads to peace and that a strong America contributes to global stability. That is the leadership that Gordon Humphrey championed in Washington and, with his help, it's the leadership I will bring to the White House. Peter comes from a distinguished New Hampshire political family and has carried on that tradition with his own dedicated service to the state and our nation. He knows New Hampshire inside and out and will be an enormous resource to our team. I'm deeply grateful that he is part of this effort," said Kasich.
  