
    Today I have signed into law H.J. Res. 110, the second short-term continuing resolution for FY 2001.
The Act provides 2001 appropriations for continuing projects and activities of the Federal Government through October 14, 2000, except those funded by the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2001, and the Military Construction Appropriations Act, 2001, which I have signed into law.
In February, I sent a budget to the Congress that funded critical investments in our future. I urge the Congress to fund these important national initiatives, including investing in education so that we can stay on a path to hiring 100,000 teachers and reduce class size, modernize and repair our schools, and expand our efforts to strengthen the quality of teachers, the performance of schools, and the accomplishments of our students.
It is also essential that we strengthen our efforts to protect and preserve the environment. Our national security must be provided for, both at home and abroad. Putting more police on the street, and fighting gun violence, helps make this Nation safer for its citizens. Similarly, supporting global leadership and the Nation's diplomacy helps make the world safer and more secure for all Americans.
It is important that we fund scientific research and technology, upon which advancements in our economy and sustained prosperity depend. Our Nation's priorities must include the expansion of this current wave of prosperity to all Americans. I urge the Congress to support my efforts to expand this prosperity, including closing the digital divide and funding efforts to bring economic development to underserved areas. I also urge the Congress to support the Equal Pay initiative and civil rights enforcement.
The health of our Nation must not be neglected, and I urge the Congress to act accordingly, including by supporting efforts to help family planning for low-income women.
I urge the Congress to continue to work with my Administration to come to mutually acceptable agreements on the remaining 2001 spending bills and to do so as quickly as possible.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, October 6, 2000.
  