
    Today, former U.S. Secretaries of Commerce who served in both Democratic and Republican administrations penned a letter stating their support to elect Joe Biden as the next President of the United States. In their letter, the secretaries stated that it is their "collective duty to ensure that the promise of the American economy continues to provide opportunity and growth for our all working families and businesses, as well as a path for the next generation to prosper." And they "believe that a Biden presidency will mark the return to the certainty and security that our economy needs to thrive."
The former U.S. Secretaries of Commerce issued the following letter: 
Letter from Former U.S. Commerce Secretaries for Joe Biden
As former U.S. Secretaries of Commerce who served in the administrations of both Democratic and Republican presidents, we understand the importance of promoting economic growth and creating good jobs.
We know that the United States thrives when our businesses and workers believe that durable, long-term growth and prosperity feel achievable and accessible for all. Today, however, far too many Americans are feeling the strain of the COVID-19 economic recession. Economists are predicting that more than 8 million jobs will be lost and roughly 4 million businesses will close prematurely this year. What's more, far too many of our workers have seen pay cuts or had their working hours reduced. This is a moment when we must choose what is better for working families, better for businesses, and better for America.
That is why we have come together to voice our support to elect Joe Biden as the next President of the United States. We believe that a Biden presidency will mark the return to the certainty and security that our economy needs to thrive. The world around us will remain chaotic, but we will once again restore stability at home to show entrepreneurs, investors, business leaders, and workers that the steady hand of U.S. leadership is once again at the helm.
Joe Biden is also a man of deep integrity and decency that will work with people of all political stripes to better manage this horrific pandemic and help bridge the deep divisions that are tearing our nation apart.
We believe it is our collective duty to ensure that the promise of the American economy continues to provide opportunity and growth for our all working families and businesses, as well as a path for the next generation to prosper. That is what Joe Biden stands for, and that is why we stand with him.
Sincerely,
Penny PritzkerCarlos GutierrezGary LockeNorm MinetaBill DaleyMickey Kantor
  