
    "Last Wednesday night, in a debate watched by nearly 70 million people, America and the world got to see the Mitt Romney I've known for most of my life. The guy who is in control, the guy who knows the answers to the hard questions, the guy who cares about people and wants to help those who need it the most. That's the Mitt I know. I couldn't have been more proud, and I couldn't be more confident that he will be the next President of the United States." — Ann Romney
The Man I Know
Blog Her
By Ann Romney
October 9, 2012
http://www.blogher.com/mitt-romney-man-i-know?page=full
Last Wednesday night, in a debate watched by nearly 70 million people, America and the world got to see the Mitt Romney I've known for most of my life. The guy who is in control, the guy who knows the answers to the hard questions, the guy who cares about people and wants to help those who need it the most. That's the Mitt I know. I couldn't have been more proud, and I couldn't be more confident that he will be the next President of the United States.
I have to admit, though, five years ago at the end of the last campaign, I told Mitt I would never do this again. Mitt laughed and said, "Honey, you say that after every pregnancy."
He had a point, but it didn't quite cover what a family has to go through on a campaign. When you love someone, know so deeply that they are a good person and are doing the right things, it's tough to watch them get unfairly attacked. But it is tougher to see how many families in our country have struggled in the last four years. I am humbled by the folks throughout the country who tell us they are praying for us, and they need Mitt to turn our country around. People are suffering; they can't pay their mortgage or give their kids the education that they deserve. We can't afford four more years like the last four. I've seen my husband turn impossible challenges into incredible successes time and again. And throughout our lives I've witnessed him serve as the man who is always there for a friend or neighbor in need. So I knew that if there was anybody who has what it takes to ease this suffering, it is my husband.
This campaign has been even more difficult than the last one, but I've never regretted our decision. As Mitt and I travel all across the country, people say, "Mitt, we're counting on you to save the country!" The energy and passion of the people we meet serves as a constant reminder of why we're in this and how important this election is. Like many Americans, I know our country is going in the wrong direction, and we're in trouble. I worry the most about our kids and our grandkids. This election will decide what kind of future we will leave for them. We can still give children a future of hope and possibility, but not if we stay on this unsustainable course of spending more and more money that we don't have, borrowing from countries like China. Unless we curb Washington's appetite for bigger government and more spending, the national debt will only continue to grow. We must take care of our little ones, not ask them to pay the bills we leave behind.
We have to get our fiscal house in order, but just as importantly, we've got to get this economy moving again and creating good jobs for our kids. Mitt will make job creation his number one priority. He has a plan for economic recovery, and he's fighting hard to ensure that our children will have the opportunities for the good jobs we want for them. That starts with enacting real education reform that won't let special interests get in the way of teaching our children. I recently heard Condoleezza Rice speak about empowerment and entitlements. She said that, right now, we have the opportunity to choose between those two words, to choose to lift our kids up and give them the tools for success. We need to empower our kids through education and give them the opportunity to have good jobs, achieve their own success, and ultimately build better lives. That is the American promise, and that is what Mitt is fighting to restore.
Mitt will turn this economy around. He has the experience and character to get us back on the road to prosperity. Mitt's successful career in the public and private sectors has prepared him to take charge on day one. And you don't have to take my word for it. Mitt and I have been so touched that many women who served in leadership positions alongside him in business, at the Olympics, and in the Massachusetts State House —- both Republicans and Democrats —- believe so strongly in Mitt's candidacy, they are sharing their own stories about Mitt right here on BlogHer, as well throughout the country during their volunteer travels! We're so fortunate that these great women are sharing their experiences with Mitt here.
Mitt has a special talent for bringing people together and for making sure everyone knows what they're working toward, how they're going to make it happen, and why they're doing it. That's the leadership I've seen Mitt exemplify throughout his entire career, and that's the leadership he will bring to the White House.
More than that, Mitt is a man of character whose heart is in the right place. As president, you never know the tough decisions you will face. It's important that we have confidence in our leader's character so we can trust he'll do the right thing at the right time. Mitt doesn't just talk about what is right — he always does what is right. Pat and Ted Oparowski know this; Pam Finlayson knows this; and I'm confident our great country knows this and voters will do the right thing on election day.
Mitt has always been my hero. There have been times in my life when I didn't think I could make it, when I wasn't sure I could take one more step. And in those times, when I couldn't do it on my own, Mitt was always there for me to lean on. He's been by my side through my entire battle with multiple sclerosis. He's the one who gave me hope, he's the one who stood by my side and said, "I don't care how sick you get, I'm with you, and we're together. We're going to be fine." He did the same thing when I was diagnosed with cancer. Mitt taught me how valuable that kind of support and compassion is when you're struggling with such a crushing disease.
Today, this country is struggling. Mitt loves this country and is running because he knows he has a plan that will make the lives of every American better. He understands the critical issues facing us and is ready to make the difficult decisions that will put our nation back on the road to economic prosperity and ensure a brighter future for our children. I encourage all of you to think about what kind of future we want to build and look closely at Mitt's vision and plan for a stronger America. In our hearts, we know this is a joint effort with so many others. I promise you that Mitt and I are doing everything we can, but we need your support as well. So I ask you all to share our message and talk with friends and family about how important this election is. We have the opportunity to get America back on the right path. With your help, we will. Thank you.
  