
    "For decades, the success of development aid was measured only in the resources spent, not the results achieved. Yet, pouring money into a failed status quo does little to help the poor, and can actually delay the progress of reform. We must accept a higher, more difficult, more promising call. Developed nations have a duty not only to share our wealth, but also to encourage sources that produce wealth: economic freedom, political liberty, the rule of law and human rights."
– President George W. Bush, 3/22/02
On October 21, President George W. Bush will deliver remarks at the White House Summit on International Development in Washington, D.C. Attended by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, musician and activist Bob Geldof, National Security Advisor Stephen Hadley, and other public and private-sector leaders, the Summit will focus on the Administration's core principles that have transformed the U.S. approach to international development by linking assistance with results. This approach is producing historic, life-saving results for millions around the globe.
Summit Agenda: Tuesday, October 21, 2008


8:30 am
Remarks by Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, President of Liberia, on the Importance of Country Ownership and Good Governance



Introduction by Condoleezza Rice, Secretary of State, United States Department of State


9:00 am
Plenary One: Country Ownership



Panel Discussion on Successful Examples of Country Ownership
    Moderated by Ambassador Mark Dybul, United States Global AIDS Coordinator, United States President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, United States Department of State


Panel Participants:

Congressman Chris Smith, United States House of Representatives (R/NJ 4th)
Dr. Sayed Mohammad Amin Fatimie, Minister of Public Health, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Dr. Elioda Tumwesigye, Member, Parliament of Uganda, and Chair, Parliamentary Committee on HIV/AIDS and Related Matters
Michael Gerson, Roger Hertog Senior Fellow, Council on Foreign Relations




10:15 am
Plenary Two: Good Governance



Panel Discussion on Effective Strategies for Fostering Good Governance
    Moderated by Henrietta Holsman Fore, Administrator, United States Agency for International Development


Panel Participants:


Congressman Donald Payne, United States House of Representatives (D/NJ 10th)
William A. Swope, Corporate Vice President and General Manager, Corporate Affairs Group, INTEL Corporation
Monica Macovei, Anti-Corruption Consultant to the Prime Minister of Macedonia
Nancy Zucker Boswell, President and Chief Executive Officer, Transparency International - USA
Petko Georgiev, Director, Broadcast Training Center ProMedia Foundation




1:15 pm
Remarks By President George W. Bush



Introduction by Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, President of Liberia


2:00 pm
Plenary Three: Results-Based Programs And Accountability



Panel Discussion on Accountability: A Shared Responsibility for Success
    Moderated by Admiral R. Timothy Ziemer, President's Malaria Initiative Coordinator, United States Agency for International Development


Panel Participants:

Dr. Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, Minister of Health, Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia
Dr. Jean William Pape, Director and Founder, GHESKIO Centers
Dr. Uche Amazigo, Director, World Health Organization African Programme for Onchocerciasis (river blindness) Control




3:15 pm
Remarks by Bob Geldof


3:30 pm
Plenary Four: Economic Growth



Panel One Discussion on Reducing Poverty through Economic Growth
    Moderated by Ambassador John J. Danilovich, Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation


Panel Participants:

Ken Hackett, President, Catholic Relief Services
Sofia Mohapi, Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Account - Lesotho
Ritu Sharma Fox, President and Co-Founder, Women Thrive Worldwide
Dr. Juan Sebastián Chamorro, Director General, Millennium Challenge Account - Nicaragua

Panel Two Discussion on Trade and Investment Liberalization: How Open Economies and Private Capital Stimulate Growth
Moderated by Robert Mosbacher, Jr., President and Chief Executive Officer, Overseas Private Investment Corporation
  

Panel Participants:

Luis Alberto Moreno, President, Inter-American Development Bank
Shari Berenbach, President and Chief Executive Officer, Calvert Foundation
Papa Ndiaye, Chief Executive Officer, Advanced Finance and Investment Group
Fred Bergsten, Director, Peterson Institute for International Economics




5:30 pm
Closing Remarks by Stephen J. Hadley, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, The White House


  