
    
On his recent trip to Nevada, Marco talked with the local NBC station about what he learned growing up in Las Vegas:

GERARD RAMALHO: "Senator Marco Rubio wrapped up a three-day campaign swing through southern Nevada this weekend. On Saturday, I had the opportunity to speak with him to one-on-one. We talked about his time growing up here in Las Vegas and about some of the challenges he faces moving forward in this presidential race. You were a Dolphins fan before you even moved out here."
MARCO RUBIO: "Oh yeah, I lived in Miami until I was 7 then we moved here."
GERARD RAMALHO: "Senator Rubio won't deny his Florida roots, but part of his heart he says remains here in Las Vegas. From the house he lived in as a child on East Lava Avenue to his elementary school CC Ronnow to Freedom Park, where he enjoyed playing football."
MARCO RUBIO: "The school across the street from the J.D. Smith Park, the first time I ever played tackle football in fourth grade, and then I was here in fifth grade and again in seventh grade."
GERARD RAMALHO: "A lot has happened since the seventh grade. First, he was an up and comer in the Republican Party. Now he's among the top-tier contenders for the party nomination. Senator, growing up in Las Vegas did you ever say to yourself I want to run for President?"
MARCO RUBIO: "Not really. I had an interest in public office and I had an interest in politics and I followed it at a young age, but I don't know how you can realistically think something like that is possible."
GERARD RAMALHO: "Rubio did not grow up wealthy. His mother was a maid at Imperial Palace, his father a bartender at Sam's Town, but he says he did grow up privileged."
MARCO RUBIO: "I grew up with two parents and a stable home who loved each other and their children and who taught us that we lived in a country that even a son of a bartender and a maid could be anything he or she wanted to be."
GERARD RAMALHO: "Many groups belong to unions who support the Democratic Party. On immigration, Rubio says his stance is tough but fair."
MARCO RUBIO: "My position on immigration is pretty straightforward. We have to be responsible but reasonable about how we deal with it. I think it begins by enforcing our laws better. Until we bring illegal immigration under control, we are noting going to make progress on immigration it in this country; it's just that simple."
GERARD RAMALHO: "Like other Republicans in the race, Rubio says if elected, he'd like to repeal Obamacare, as for the economy there would be changes as well. The President, if you listen to his cabinet, he'll tell you the economy has improved. We've created jobs.  We're in a much better position than where we were. What is your take on that and do you think you could improve upon that if elected?"
MARCO RUBIO: "It's true we're technically near full employment but those jobs don't pay enough and you have record numbers of people that have dropped out of the work force.  You have to account for both of those things. The new jobs that are being created don't pay enough and you're measuring that percentage against a smaller pool of people, you have people that have dropped out of the labor market and both of these things are disastrous for the country."
  