
    Yesterday, President Biden presented the Build Back Better Framework to Congress, and highlighted its transformative investment in climate, care, and kids, that will lower the costs of things families depend on, help people get back to work, and grow the economy.
The Framework is designed to level the playing field and make corporations and the wealthiest pay their fair share, so that middle class families can finally get some breathing room.
President Biden heard input from all sides and announced a Build Back Better framework he is confident will pass through Congress and be signed into law, delivering generational investments in the economy for working people.
The Build Back Better Framework will transform the lives of millions of children, saving parents thousands of dollars, and adding two years of free, universal schooling to our education system for the first time in over 100 years. It will be the largest effort to combat climate change in history. It will cut taxes for tens of millions of middle-class families. It is the biggest expansion of affordable health care in a decade. As the President said, it's a big darn deal.
Advocacy groups applauded the President and praised the framework.
See below for what they are saying:
Patrick Gaspard, CEO, Center for American Progress: "The announcement of today's Build Back Better framework marks a new beginning for American families, our economy, and our planet. With the Build Back Better Act, President Biden and Democratic leaders in Congress are on the precipice of passing the most consequential economic legislation in 50 years. Today's framework marks a legislative turning point in the decades-long failure of trickle-down economics and its ravages on the American people, as well as the start of a new vision: growing the economy by investing in working people, creating millions of good-paying union jobs, and protecting the planet.
Significantly, this legislation will:Put the United States on a clear path to cut emissions in half by the end of the decade—the biggest single action we've ever taken to tackle the climate crisisRequire large corporations to start paying their fair share in taxes and invest those resources to lift up working people, particularly by raising wages for child care and home-care workersGive working families economic relief by establishing universal preschool and ensuring that child care is accessible and affordable for all families in AmericaReduce child poverty nearly in half through the continuation of President Biden's child tax credit for 2022, with low-income families made permanently eligible for the full benefitExpand health coverage to millions more Americans, saving thousands of lives each yearThis is the first legislative package in our nation's history to value the central role of women, especially women of color, in the economy by linking recovery to their advancement in work—particularly that done by early childhood educators and home-care workers—that has long been devalued and robbed of its dignity and by supporting women's labor force participation through a dramatic expansion in child care access and affordability. This legislation also recognizes that for decades, Americans' stagnant paychecks have been eaten up by rising energy, child care, and health care costs. Today's deal will put money back in the pockets of millions of families.The framework reached today ensures that all American families benefit from the nation's economic growth and starts to address racial and gender inequalities that have persisted for far too long. It also begins to level the playing field by ensuring that wealthy tax cheats can no longer avoid paying their fair share by hiding assets abroad and taking advantage of loopholes that aren't available to the vast majority of Americans, and that never again will a large profitable corporation pay zero dollars in taxes—as dozens of companies did just last year.While there is still much work to be done to advance fundamental priorities such as providing all workers with access to paid leave and lowering prescription drug prices, the Build Back Better Act serves as a new foundation to build America's economic future. But America's future can't wait. Congress must act to turn this framework into a bill that is passed quickly to continue delivering real change for the American people."[Statement, 10/28/21]
John Podesta, founder and chair of the board of the Center for American Progress: "This is it. The historic investments announced today will build the clean energy economy that we need. This framework is poised to create millions of good-paying union jobs, lower family energy costs, and begin the process of unraveling the legacy of environmental injustice. Today's framework isn't going to solve climate change and environmental injustice all by itself, but it is an agreement to stand together for the first time and fight for our future.
Despite what sometimes looked like impossible odds, President Joe Biden, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), and Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) have found a way forward. There is desperately little margin for error; but if these investments pass through Congress in short order, we keep alive the possibility of averting planetary catastrophe. The agreement gives the administration the tools it needs to meet the climate test and achieve 50 to 52 percent reductions of greenhouse gases by 2030.
I applaud the administration and those in Congress who have worked tirelessly to get this done ahead of the global climate talks in Glasgow next week, as this sets the bar incredibly high. Today's framework marks possibly the most important action yet for our planet and our future." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Jessica Floyd, President, American 21st Century: "Thanks to Democrats in Congress and the Biden-Harris Administration's bipartisan agenda, America will once again prioritize workers and middle-class families over the billionaires who got a sweetheart deal under the last administration and Republican leadership," said American Bridge 21st Century President Jessica Floyd. "It is disappointing, though not surprising, that Republicans are more focused on obstruction and division than supporting this plan to get the economy back on track. The American people overwhelmingly support the Build Back Better Agenda because it places working families at the heart of our economic growth, creates millions of good-paying jobs and gets our country back on track. As we move closer to the midterms, American Bridge 21st Century will continue to uplift the stories of recovery and relief that were made possible by President Biden's leadership. American Bridge will be working with partners and allies to ensure voters know that Democrats are the ones delivering for them." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Meghan Roh, Program Director, Opportunity Wisconsin:"Thanks to the Biden-Harris administration, over the last several months we have seen shots in arms, money in pockets, small businesses reopening, students safely returning to the classroom, or simply seniors hugging their grandchildren again. Now it's time to continue to build on this progress by passing the Build Back Better agenda. We strongly urge our elected officials to fully support the Build Better Better framework as we continue to recover from the pandemic and level the playing field for Wisconsin's working families. This plan will lower the costs of things families depend on, help people get back to work, and grow the economy. It's past time for Senator Ron Johnson and Wisconsin's Republican congressional representatives—all of whom voted against the American Rescue Plan—to stand with Wisconsin families and pass the Build Back Better Act. If they don't, it will just be the latest reminder that they'd rather protect corporations from paying any taxes than they would protect people who work for a living." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Third Way: "Universal pre-K $555 BILLION in climate action Health care cost caps A college completion fund Taxes on corporations & the wealthy & a whole lot more Twice as big as the New Deal. Relief and recovery for all Americans. That's how you #BuildBackBetter" [Tweet, 10/28/21]
Jim Kessler, Executive Vice President for Policy, on President Biden "President Biden has delivered on his promises, and now millions of Americans will benefit. "Thanks to the leadership of the President, Speaker Pelosi, and Leader Schumer, Democrats from every corner of their big ideological tent have reached a deal to make historic investments in our nation's infrastructure and our people. Millions of Americans will enjoy the biggest tax cut in history for working- and middle-class families. Universal pre-K will save families thousands of dollars. Investments in the workforce mean more will attend and complete college and apprenticeships. Health care costs will be capped for millions of working-income Americans, and it will insure millions more. And there are many other key provisions to help American workers thrive. The deal also takes an enormous step forward in response to climate change with huge investments in the technologies we need to transition to clean energy quickly and equitably. This down payment on our clean-energy future cannot be overstated—it is a historic investment that puts us on track to reach our climate goals and get us the momentum we need to achieve net-zero carbon emissions by 2050. And under this president, "Infrastructure Week" is no longer a joke: Democrats will soon put people to work on repairing our nation's crumbling roads and bridges and expand broadband to everyone. Democrats are doing this almost entirely alone. Republicans – even most in the GOP who call themselves "Problem Solvers" – have vowed to try to block these bills and have chosen gridlock over solutions. Is there more to be done? Of course. But let's be clear, this is a historic accomplishment for President Joe Biden which, combined with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill and the American Rescue Plan, make for one of the most successful first years in presidential history." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Gabe Horowitz: "Massive win for @POTUS and this country with this #BuildBackBetter #Framework." [Tweet, 10/28/21]
Jim Kessler: "This is an enormous win for Joe Biden and caps off a truly spectacular first year that few presidents have matched. #BuildBackBetter @POTUS #Framework" [Tweet, 10/28/21]
Rahna Epting, MoveOn: "@POTUS's Build Back Better framework is good. Tons of critical investments in here (climate, care, citizenship, & taxing the rich), not all, but lots to celebrate. Now, lets work to move from a framework to a deal & pass it as soon as possible. #BuildBackBetter"[Tweet, 10/28/21]
Lonnie Scott, Executive Director, Progress Michigan: "The Build Back Better framework is a significant step in rebuilding the foundation of this country – the hard-working middle class. Build Back Better is the most dramatic investment in our healthcare system in a decade, reducing sky-high premiums and extending coverage to uninsured individuals. We're also glad to see monumental steps in the right direction on progressive priorities such as affordable childcare, affordable care for older Americans and people with disabilities in their homes and climate action. Build Back Better includes all of these things while at the same time lowering taxes for the middle class and equally as importantly raising them on billionaires who for too long haven't paid their fair share. We thank President Biden for delivering for the people of Michigan and America and look forward to the passage of this historic framework." [Statement, 10/28/21]
  