
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate one individual and his intention to appoint twenty individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Charles S. Shapiro to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to be Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Shapiro has been the Director of the Office of Cuban Affairs since 1999. His previous overseas assignments include service as Deputy chief of Mission in Santiago from 1995 to 1998, Deputy Chief of Mission in Port of Spain from 1991 to 1994, and Political Officer in San Salvador from 1985 to 1988. He has held numerous posts in Washington, D.C. including Executive Assistant in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, International Relations Officer in the Office of Latin American Programs in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, and Deputy Director of the Office of Andean Affairs. Mr. Shapiro received an undergraduate degree from the University of Pennsylvania and a Master's degree from Georgia State University.
The President intends to appoint the following sixteen individuals to serve as Members of the newly-created President's Commission on Excellence in Special Education:
Terry Edward Branstad of Iowa who will serve as Chairman. Adela Acosta of Maryland. Steve Bartlett of Texas Paula C. Butterfield of Pennsylvania Jay G. Chambers of California W. Alan Coulter of Louisiana Thomas Albert Flemming of Michigan Jack M. Fletcher of Texas Douglas H. Gill of Washington David W. Gordon of California Nancy S. Grasmick of Maryland Bryan C. Hassel of North Carolina Douglas Carl Huntt of Ohio Michael J. Rivas of Texas Cheryl Rei Takemoto of Virginia Katie Wright of Illinois
The following Members of the President's Commission on Excellence in Special Education will serve ex officio:
Elizabeth Ann Bryan of Texas Edward Sontag of Virginia Robert Pasternack of New Mexico Reid Lyon of Maryland Wade F. Horn of Maryland
  