
    "But for sheer depth of experience, principled courage and unassailable independence, Republican John McCain stands out. The Arizona Senator offers the best hope for crafting a foreign policy that will stand strong against America's enemies without needlessly alienating allies. He is a budget hawk who could curb Congress' lavish ways, a particular need in these economic times. He has a proven ability to transcend the stunting political polarities that bedevil Washington." -- The Grand Rapids Press
"For President -- John McCain"
Editorial
The Grand Rapids PressOctober 26, 2008
Sen. John McCain's experience, character and courage make him the best candidate to lead the country in uncertain times.
Each major party candidate for president this year brings unique strengths to the urgent issues facing the nation.
But for sheer depth of experience, principled courage and unassailable independence, Republican John McCain stands out. The Arizona Senator offers the best hope for crafting a foreign policy that will stand strong against America's enemies without needlessly alienating allies. He is a budget hawk who could curb Congress' lavish ways, a particular need in these economic times. He has a proven ability to transcend the stunting political polarities that bedevil Washington.
For these reasons, we endorse Sen. John McCain for president.
Mr. McCain's well-known story includes five years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, where he fought as a Navy pilot. In captivity, he endured unimaginable torture and humiliation, but refused the early release his captors offered him as the son of an admiral. Mr. McCain brought that same grit and determination to his role in Congress, as a representative elected in 1983 and senator since 1987. He has generally been conservative on taxes and spending, with occasional, but key, breaks from his party on signature issues.
He is tough-minded on national security, but proposed a bill that would both secure borders and offer illegal immigrants a path to citizenship. He helped break a Senate logjam on judicial nominations. Despite the "drill, baby, drill" slogan of his campaign, Mr. McCain recognizes the need for a multi-pronged approach to energy that begins with more nuclear power and includes investment in alternatives. His relentless battle against budget earmarks -- really a form of legislative palm-greasing for congressional colleagues-- offer the measure of a man who will fight for what is right regardless of how it rankles foes or friends. In all these endeavors Mr. McCain has not hesitated to team with liberal Democrats such as Sen. Ted Kennedy to achieve common goals. On the economy, he would limit spending, control taxes and use the considerable powers of the government where necessary. Whoev er becomes president will face in the roller-coaster stock market and credit crunch problems that have no easy solutions.
The next administration will be called to ask for patience and sacrifice, and to adjust government programs to these new fiscal realities. Here, Mr. McCain's call for an across-the-board spending freeze strikes the right note of urgency.
On foreign policy, Mr. McCain complained loudly against the prosecution of the Iraq war under President Bush and former Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld. He advocated a new strategy and more troops long before those ideas caught fire in the White House. His criticisms were precisely on point.
Democrat Barack Obama would bring his own strengths to the presidency. His ability to inspire and engage millions of voters -- young people in particular -- can only be admired. Opponents have mocked him for his lofty rhetoric. But a leader is called to articulate an elevating, inspirational vision. In steady, coherent fashion, Mr. Obama has added that -- and more -- to the national dialogue. Not to be ignored, too, is the historic nature of Mr. Obama's candidacy and the opportunity it offers to salve the racial wounds that continue to plague this country.
However, there is every reason to be skeptical that Mr. Obama's real-life leadership would match his eloquently stated ideals. His thin record as a lawmaker -- eight years in the Illinois Legislature, four years in the U.S. Senate -- has not included significant legislation. His time in Congress has been marked more by partisan votes than bipartisan compromise or any leadership at all.
Mr. McCain has drawbacks of his own. The John McCain of this campaign has not always been recognizable as the John McCain who established such a pragmatic, admirable record in Washington. We would look for the old McCain -- we hope, the real McCain -- to return if he is elected. His choice of running mate, Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, an accomplished governor, brought a new personality to the political stage. However, her readiness to assume the office of president is in doubt. Indeed, Mr. Obama's selection of Delaware Sen. Joseph Biden is a more responsible choice, despite Mr. Biden's habit of acting as a verbal gaffe machine. Ultimately, however, voters in 2008, as with past presidential elections, are called to make a choice for president, not for vice president.
The next president will face a deepening economic crisis at home, and the challenge abroad to carefully extricate the country from the war in Iraq while finding a new strategy to fight a resurgent Taliban in Afghanistan. National security has receded in the face of the country's Wall Street woes. But extremist forces continue to lurk, waiting to strike. The next great crisis for the United States may be the one nobody foresees. That calls for a leader who is tested and battle-hardened.
In this race, John McCain -- a veteran, in more ways than one -- is the right person.
Read The Editorial
  