
    Today I have signed into law H.R. 2445, the "Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, 1994."
This Act provides funding for the Department of Energy. In addition it provides funds for the water resources development activities of the Army Corps of Engineers and the Department of the Interior's Bureau of Reclamation. Various related independent agencies are also funded by this Act.
This Act supports a number of my high-priority investment proposals in the Department of Energy. These include cooperative research and development agreements, solar and renewable energy programs, and the Stanford Linear Accelerator Center B-Factory. The bill also supports my investment proposals for improved maintenance at Army Corps of Engineers facilities.
I am disappointed that the Congress has not provided funding in this Act for continuing construction of the Superconducting Super Collider (SSC). This project was an important element of our Nation's science program, and its termination is a serious loss for the field of high energy physics. I am glad, however, that the bill does redirect the SSC funds to be spent for orderly termination so that we can assist the affected workers and communities in Texas and elsewhere. I look forward to receiving a report from Secretary of Energy, Hazel O'Leary, on future options for the Nation's high energy physics program, now that the planned centerpiece for the field has been terminated.
I am also disappointed that, with the limited resources available, the Congress has added funds for unrequested water projects and studies. In total, this Act provides over $300 million more than I requested for such projects and studies within the Army Corps of Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation.
I am pleased that this Act provides funding for the Dual-Axis Radiographic Hydrotest facility (DARHT). In the absence of underground nuclear weapons tests, the DARHT facility will be vital to maintaining confidence in the stockpile.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, October 28, 1993.
  