
    To: Interested Parties
From: Ann Lewis, Senior Adviser
RE: Women Changing America – a Week in Review
This week, the Hillary Clinton campaign focused on Women Changing America. The week was a great success, including growing grassroots support, a record breaking fund-raising event, new family-friendly policies and leadership by Hillary on issues important to women.
Meanwhile, President Bush celebrated this week in his own special way: two weeks after vetoing the children's heath bill that would have covered nearly 4 million additional kids, he appointed Susan Orr, an anti-family planning ideologue, to be responsible for overseeing family planning funding at the Department of Health and Human Services. Women know what's at stake in this election!
Celebrating Women Changing America:

Women for Hillary Councils launched in 10 states across the country and Washington, DC, comprised of elected officials and grassroots leaders who will be ambassadors in their states, speaking to their friends, family and associates about this election, and helping to grow the network of women across America supporting the campaign. Hillary kicked off the councils on a conference call in which she thanked them for joining with her to make history.
Nearly 1,000 women from 47 states convened in Washington, DC for a National Women's Finance Council Summit – an unprecedented event that raised over $1.5 million for Hillary's campaign and energized supporters across the country.
Hillary outlined a new work-family policy to expand paid family leave programs at the state level, expand the Family Medical Leave Act to cover an additional 13 million Americans, and ensure that parents are not forced to choose between keeping their job and caring for their families.
Prominent women leaders across the country endorsed Hillary, including California Congresswoman Hilda Solis and Maryland Treasurer Nancy Kopp.
Hillary underscored her commitment to quality, affordable health care for every American at a forum organized by the Federation of American Hospitals and Families USA and on a conference call with nearly 700 women doctors and health care professionals from the American Medical Women's Association and other health care organizations.
The campaign invited women to share their stories, and highlighted some of the Women Changing America in their own communities across the country on our blog (www.hillaryclinton.com/women ).

  