
    Office of National Drug Control Policy
Today, White House Office of National Drug Control Policy (ONDCP) Director Jim Carroll announced nearly $13 million in discretionary funding to help states and law enforcement respond to the drug crisis and curb drug trafficking through several existing and new initiatives.
ONDCP will distribute more than $1.6 million across the 13 counties in 12 states that were recently designated as High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA). HIDTAs facilitate coordination among Federal, State, local, and tribal law enforcement partners focused on disrupting and dismantling drug trafficking organizations.
ONDCP will also provide $5 million to expand the Overdose Response Strategy (ORS) from 11 HIDTAs covering 24 states and the District of Columbia to 21 HIDTAs covering 34 States and the District of Columbia.
The mission of the ORS is to reduce the incidence of fatal and non-fatal drug overdoses by supporting and implementing evidence-based interventions and improving information sharing across Federal agencies and participating States. The ORS works at the Federal, State, and local level on law enforcement, response, treatment and recovery, and prevention efforts.
"While we've made progress in reducing the number of Americans dying from drug overdoses, it's critical we maintain our focus and continue to be relentless in our prevention, treatment, and law enforcement efforts. These record investments will expand partnerships across all levels of government to both crack down on those bringing poison into our communities and get help to those struggling with addiction. The Trump Administration remains committed to devoting resources and bringing attention to the crisis of addiction in America in order to save lives," ONDCP Director Jim Carroll said.
The full list of items receiving the $12.9 million in discretionary funding are listed below.

Expansion of Overdose Response Strategy ($5,000,000)

Increases complete coverage to 30 States and partial coverage to 4 States


Newly Designated HIDTAs ($1,665,000)

Funds 13 counties in 12 States and 8 HIDTAs


Enhance Innovative & Strategic Partnerships ($2,504,367)

Supports 14 projects that promote collaboration between public safety and public health


Strengthen the HIDTA Infrastructure ($2,233,618)

Supports 13 projects to enhance information sharing and information technology


Address Emergent Drug Threats ($1,157,700)

Supports 7 projects to address the surge of methamphetamine and evolving threats related to opioids


Strategic Increase for two HIDTAs ($340,000)

Adds funds to Central and North Florida HIDTAs to address increased drug trafficking from displaced Puerto Rican organizations and Mexican-produced crystal meth



  