
    Biden will take any position he needs to to help the radical left seize power. 
Joe Biden is falsely claiming the Senate's impending confirmation of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the U.S. Supreme Court is "unconstitutional." It's a laughable, pathetic accusation, and it directly contradicts what Biden himself said in 2016 and 2017.
"It's not unconstitutional," CNN's Jake Tapper said after Biden's deputy campaign manager failed to specify which part of the Constitution Republicans were violating. "There's nothing unconstitutional about what the U.S. Senate is doing."
Joe Biden used to agree. In 2016, Biden said that if he were chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, he would see it as his constitutional duty to move forward with a Supreme Court nomination, even a few months before a presidential election:
"I made it absolutely clear that I would go forward with the confirmation process, as chairman — even a few months before a presidential election — if the nominee were chosen with the advice, and not merely the consent, of the Senate — just as the Constitution requires."

In January 2017, Biden was asked if Democrats should refuse to go along with the confirmation process of a Supreme Court nominee selected by President Trump. Biden said no:
"I think they should [go along], look, the Constitution says the President shall nominate, not maybe he could, maybe he can't, he shall nominate. Implicit in the Constitution is that the Senate will act on its constitutional responsibility and give its advice and consent. No one is required to vote for the nominee. But they, in my view, are required to give the nominee a hearing and a vote. It's been my policy since I've been in the United States Senate, I presided over more Supreme Court nominees than anyone in history, anyone living. And never once, even the ones that I've disagreed with, have they been denied a hearing... I think they should see who they nominate and vote on them."

This Supreme Court vacancy has exposed Joe Biden as a shameless hypocrite who will say whatever he needs to say to help the radical left seize power. He has refused to come clean on his plans to rig the Supreme Court in the far left's favor if he were to win the White House, and he now is attacking as "unconstitutional" a process he himself was defending just a short time ago.
Biden has campaigned on the claim that he will always tell voters the truth. That's obviously malarkey.
  