
    The President. Do you ever rest? Do you people ever rest?
Health Care Reform Legislation 
Q. What are you asking for from Chuck Schumer?
The President. Well, if we could make a deal, at least on a temporary basis, because Obamacare is exploding; it's gone. The premiums are through the roof. You see what's happening. So if we could make a temporary deal, because ultimately we're going to hand it back to the States—we're going to block grant back to the States.
But if we made a temporary deal, I think it would be a great thing for people, but it's really up to him. Obamacare is a disaster. The numbers are out. It's exploding like I said it would. So basically, if we could do a 1-year deal or a 2-year deal as a temporary measure, you'll have block granting ultimately to the States, which is what the Republicans want. That really is a repeal and replace.
The President's Remarks to Reporters During a Photo Opportunity With Military Leaders and Their Spouses 
Q. Mr. President—[inaudible]—"calm before the storm" comment?
The President. Nothing to clarify.
North Korea 
Q. What's the one thing that will work with North Korea?
The President. Well, you'll figure that out pretty soon.
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson 
Q. Mr. President, is your relationship with Secretary Tillerson still intact?
The President. Very good relationship. I have a very good—that was fake news. That was fake news by NBC, sorry.
Sexual Harassment Allegations Against Weinstein Company Cochairman Harvey Weinstein 
Q. [Inaudible]
The President. I've known Harvey Weinstein for a long time. I'm not all surprised to see it.
White House Chief of Staff John F. Kelly 
Q. What about your Chief of Staff John Kelly?
The President. John Kelly is one of the best people I've ever worked with. He's doing an incredible job, and he told me for the last 2 months he loves it more than anything he's ever done.
He's a military man, but he loves doing this, which is Chief of Staff, more than anything he's ever done. He's doing a great job. He will be here, in my opinion, for the entire 7 remaining years.
Secretary of State Rex W. Tillerson Q. [Inaudible]—relationship with Secretary Tillerson? [Inaudible]
The President. No, no. He likes Secretary Tillerson; so do I. We have a very good relationship. We disagree on a couple of things. Sometimes, I'd like him to be a little bit tougher, but other than that, we have a very good relationship.
Q. [Inaudible]
The President. Well, he says they were in a—[inaudible].
Q. [Inaudible]
The President. That's locker room. That's locker room.
Go ahead.
The President's Travel to North Carolina 
Q. [Inaudible]
The President. Well, we're going to see what happens. We're going to see what happens.
So now I am going to the really great State—a State that I love—of North Carolina. And I'll see you later. Go home and rest.
Iran 
Q. Will you recertify the Iran deal?
The President. What?
Q. Will you recertify the Iran deal?
The President. You're going to see very soon.
  