
    Dr. Melissa Clouthier, a widely-read and well-respected conservative blogger, wrote a great piece on her support of Rick Perry to get America working again:
Rick Perry will be the next President of the United States if I have anything to do with it.
Who am I? I'm a mom, a doctor, a business owner, a former Michigander, Californian and New Yorker, a conservative with a libertarian streak, a Tea Party attender and reporter, a blogger, an activist, and for 14 years, a Texan.

Dr. Clouthier is also one of the most prolific conservatives on twitter.
I live under the light hand of the Texas system—a hand that Governor Perry has done everything in his power to make lighter. He cut the size and scope of government even as the Texas population grew faster than any place in the nation. We started a business here with nothing but a credit card. You know how much money we were making a month when we first moved here fourteen years ago? Two thousand a month. Gross. With a baby. Slowly, surely, we built our business and life here.
When we first got to Texas, my husband worked with doctors who were heavily involved in the Worker's Comp (work injuries) and Personal Injury (car accidents) system. It was rife with abuse. There were rings of lawyers, doctors, and accident fakers who exploited the system. Governor Perry directly took on the fraud and abuse which meant taking on the trial lawyers association. In one day after the law was passed (my husband had long since gone into practice for himself and had a holistic practice), the shysters lost the whole scam. It was beautiful to behold.
And then, this last year, Governor Perry pushed through "loser pays" on lawsuits. I cannot even tell you how much lawyers in Texas hate Rick Perry. And it's one reason I love his record. It's also a reason, they'll fight tooth and nail against him nationally.
Perry has curbed malpractice judgments. So now, doctors are moving to Texas in droves. The Houston medical center is a haven of medical innovation and bold new treatments. People fly from all over the country to come here for cancer treatment and more. When a family member was diagnosed with cancer, do you know how long it took to get an appointment with the number one specialist in the world? Less than one week. I would shudder to be in Massachusetts suffering under impossibly long doctor wait times.
Rick Perry has fought Barack Obama from day one. I don't know how many lawsuits have been filed back and forth against the federal government, but I know there's multiple fights with the EPA, there's Obamacare, there's Medicaid, there's the border, and on and on. Other people talk about fighting President Obama. Governor Perry has gone straight at President Obama's socialist agenda and tangled with him both rhetorically and in the courts of law.

Dr. Clouthier offers a clear distinction between Rick Perry, President Obama, and the other GOP candidates, highlighting Gov. Perry's record and conservative resolve.
I want our president to know what it's like to have skin in the game, to be in the military...to sacrifice. Rick Perry was a C-130 air force pilot who finished as Captain. Pilots need to make quick decisions in demanding situations..life and death decisions.
Governor Perry is solidly anti-abortion, pro-gun-rights, anti-job killing regulations, pro-capitalist, pro-America, pro-Israel, and for economic expansion. More than being for these things, his professional walk supports these things. He doesn't just talk or evangelize (though he does both), his record supports these principles.
I believe that Governor Perry can bring the success that his administration facilitated in Texas to America. The Obama-Keynesian experiment has been an abject failure. What's the alternative? A mushy Mitt Romneyesque big government Republicanism that expands the power of the government just at a slower rate? A rhetorical flourish from a businessman with no legislative experience?

Please take a moment to share this on facebook and twitter with the sharing links at the top of the page. Read Dr. Clouthier's full write-up here.
  