
    Members of Congress & Administration Officials
Speaker of the House Paul Ryan (R-WI): "Opioids have wrested the livelihood from so many, but there are no lost causes. The legislation signed by the president today gives community leaders—the people doing this vital work day in and day out—more resources to help people get clean and stay clean."
Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-KY): "Good news: @POTUS just signed the ‘SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act,' a landmark #opioids bill that includes new programs to keep families safe. The bill takes steps to stop illegal drugs and synthetic opioids from crossing the border."
Senate Majority Whip John Cornyn (R-TX): "The opioid crisis has cut short tens of thousands of lives and broken countless families ... With the Substance Abuse Prevention Act signed into law, we can better support law enforcement and healthcare agencies tasked with reducing demand and helping those in rehabilitation. I applaud the President for signing it and Congress for working together because no state has been spared by this epidemic."
House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy (R-CA): "Today marks another monumental step in the fight to end the deadliest drug epidemic in world history, which claims over 100 lives every single day. To give America the best chance to beat back the opioid crisis, Congress stood together and passed a landmark legislative initiative. Today President Trump signed that bill into law."
Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee Chairman Lamar Alexander (R-TN): "This is the most important new health care law this year. ... [This law] represents the work of 8 committees in the House and 5 committees in the Senate who have worked together across party lines to help address the opioid crisis, which is hurting virtually every American community."
House Energy and Commerce Committee Chairman Greg Walden (R-OR) and Health Subcommittee Chairman Michael Burgess (R-TX): "This landmark legislation is the culmination of months of bipartisan work to combat the opioid crisis from every angle. H.R. 6 brings critical support to the communities most desperately in need, provides new tools and resources for those on the front lines of this crisis, and helps stop the flow of deadly drugs across our borders. Rarely can we say that legislation will save lives, but there is no doubt that H.R. 6 will do just that."
House Judiciary Committee Chairman Bob Goodlatte (R-VA): "With President Trump signing into law the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act, we are providing more resources to help prevent addiction and provide treatment options for those addicted to opioids. I thank President Trump for his leadership on this issue and I was honored to be present at the White House for the signing today."
Sen. Lisa Murkowski (R-AK): "Opioids have caused destruction for far too long. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act will create long-term solutions and help heal our families and communities, creating a safer future for our state and nation."
Sen. Chris Coons (D-DE): "I'm proud that Democrats and Republicans worked together to pass legislation that will provide critical tools to help states like Delaware combat the opioid epidemic. Today, the President signed that bipartisan legislation into law."
Sen. Marco Rubio (R-FL): "President Trump's signing of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act today is an important step in combatting the opioid crisis plaguing communities in my home state of Florida and across our country."
Sen. Johnny Isakson (R-GA): "Today, @POTUS signed our comprehensive #opioidcrisis response legislation into law. We worked across party lines, committees and both chambers of Congress to pass this important legislation, and @SenLamarAlexander & @SenOrrinHatch deserve great credit."
Sen. David Perdue (R-GA): "We've got to stop the spread of opioids through our communities in GA & across the country. It's time to tackle this epidemic head on, and the law @POTUS just signed gives states the necessary tools to see that mission through."
Sen. Todd Young (R-IN): "This bipartisan opioid package is now law, meaning that more resources will be available in the fight against the devastating opioid epidemic. I introduced six bills that are included in this new law, which will help us better understand and treat opioid addiction in order to save lives in Indiana and across America."
Sen. Ed Markey (D-MA): "Today, important bipartisan opioid legislation was signed into law, which included my provision to expand access to medication-assisted treatment for families and communities impacted by the #OpioidEpidemic."
Sen. Susan Collins (R-ME): "The opioids package that was signed into law today is a major step forward in fighting this tragic epidemic. I'm pleased that my bipartisan proposals to allow the safe disposal of unused drugs in hospice and to bolster peer support networks were included in this legislation."
Sen. Amy Klobuchar (D-MN): "Now that the STOP Act has been signed into law, our law enforcement agencies will have more tools to prevent synthetic drugs from being transported from overseas through our postal system. This bipartisan legislation is a major step forward in combatting the opioid crisis by stemming the flow of synthetic drugs into our country."
Sen. Steve Daines (R-MT): "We as a nation have taken the first step to curbing the drug crisis destroying our families and communities. I will continue to work with local and state law enforcement to help overcome this devastating reality once and for all."
Sen. John Hoeven (R-ND): "We appreciate the President signing into law this legislation to help combat opioid abuse and provide additional tools to help families and communities impacted by addiction. This legislation is comprehensive and supports prevention, treatment, recovery and law enforcement efforts."
Sen. Rob Portman (R-OH): "Getting the STOP Act signed into law is a big victory in our efforts to combat the opioid crisis and stop the influx of cheap, deadly synthetic drugs like fentanyl."
Sen. Shelley Moore Capito (R-WV): "Having put so much work into shaping this legislation, I was honored to be at the White House today as President Trump signed it into law. With the president's signature, we are able to finally deliver on our promise for a robust, comprehensive response to the opioid epidemic that is plaguing West Virginia and so many other state across the country."
Rep. French Hill (R-AR): "We've been working hard to combat the current prescription drug and opioid crisis. Today marks successful progress with the president signing into law this comprehensive opioid bill that includes nearly 60 individual pieces of legislation we passed in the House this year with my support."
Rep. Martha McSally (R-AZ): "The opioid crisis has devastated families in S. AZ & throughout our great state. Today, @POTUS signed legislation that will advance treatment & recovery initiatives & give law enforcement more tools to crack down on synthetic drugs. I will continue to work to combat this crisis."
Rep. Tom O'Halleran (D-AZ): "Today our bipartisan work to address the opioid crisis was signed into law. I am pleased to see two of my policies, the Rural DOCs and ROOT Acts, received broad support from my colleagues in Congress and were included in the final bill."
Rep. Jeff Denham (R-CA): "It's time we eliminate the stigma surrounding opioid addiction... This bill will provide treatment, keep our community safe and prevent future addictions across the Valley."
Rep. Doug LaMalfa (R-CA): "Thank you to @POTUS for signing into law H.R. 6, the Patients and Communities Act. This bipartisan legislation overwhelmingly passed the House and Senate earlier this year and contains numerous bills designed to combat the growing #opioid crisis in our country."
Rep. Carlos Curbelo (R-FL): "Proud this bill will support work being done in #FL26 by groups like New Hope. U.S. is finally turning the tide on #OpioidCrisis that‘s been plaguing communities like #SoFla. This bill & programs it‘ll support are crucial step in our fight to overcome & treat #opioid addiction."
Rep. Mario Diaz-Balart (R-FL): "I am grateful to @POTUS for recognizing the toll that opioids are having in our homes, in our families, + in our daily lives. Let me be clear: the road does not end here. I remain committed to working with my colleagues to do whatever we can to put an end to this tragic epidemic."
Rep. Daniel Webster (R-FL): "Life is a precious gift, sadly in 2016, the lives of 4,728 Floridians were lost due to an opioid overdose. Providing law enforcement, the healthcare industry and local communities the tools to combat this crisis has been one of our priorities. H.R. 6, the Patients and Communities Act, which passed the House and Senate with bipartisan support does just that. I thank President Trump for signing it into law."
Rep. Doug Collins (R-GA): "Today, @POTUS kept a key promise to bring relief to victims of the #OpioidEpidemic as he signed #HR6, which includes the Substance Abuse Prevention Act I introduced to help address this complex crisis. Together, we're investing in a stronger, healthier, and drug-free America."
Rep. Rod Blum (R-IA): "Great news from @POTUS @realDonaldTrump today — signing into law H.R. 6, to combat the opioid crisis in our communities."
Rep. Mike Bost (R-IL): "Addiction doesn't care about your race, gender, social class, or politics. It has ravaged families and communities right here in Southern Illinois. That's why it's so important that we were able to come together around this historic, bipartisan legislation to fight the opioid crisis. If we work together, we can save lives and continue to restore hope."
Rep. Darin LaHood (R-IL): "Great news! @POTUS just signed into law HR 6, which included my legislation the Opioid Addiction Action Plan. This bipartisan landmark legislation takes significant steps towards saving lives and helping families in #IL18 struggling from the #OpioidCrisis."
Rep. Jim Banks (R-IN): "I'm proud that in bipartisan fashion, this Congress and the Trump administration have been able to provide local and state officials resources to help prevent and treat those suffering from opioid addiction. Additionally, we're committed to protecting communities and fighting fentanyl. Together, we'll be able to fight this deadly disease."
Rep. Susan Brooks (R-IN): "More relief is on the way for our communities. H.R. 6 is a package of common-sense solutions that will help our nation advance treatment and recovery initiatives for people struggling with substance abuse, improve prevention efforts so more lives are not lost as a result of the heroin and opioid epidemic, and enhance our efforts to fight the entry of deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl into our country."
Rep. Andy Barr (R-KY): "After months of bipartisan work, this critical legislation marks the most significant action against a drug crisis in history and will provide Kentucky with the tools needed to prevent the flow of illegal drugs into our communities, enhance prescription drug monitoring programs to address the high prescribing rates, and improve local prevention and treatment initiatives."
Rep. Tim Walberg (R-MI): "The opioid crisis continues to claim lives and devastate dreams, and families in Michigan know this pain all too well. This landmark law will make a tangible difference by equipping our communities with additional tools to address addiction and preventing illicit drugs from coming into our country."
Rep. Greg Gianforte (R-MT): "For too long, drugs like meth, opioids and fentanyl have destroyed Montana families and torn apart our communities. The law President Trump signed today, which I strongly supported and voted for, will help address this deadly public health crisis."
Rep. Virginia Foxx (R-NC): "@POTUS just signed #HR6 into law. For those combating opioid abuse in our communities, this law delivers more resources to the front lines of the battle. We're not done yet, and to end this scourge, we need to keep working together."
Rep. Kevin Cramer (R-ND): "I am pleased @POTUS signed H.R. 6 into law today to combat the #opioid crisis. The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act will advance treatment, improve prevention, and protect communities from unlawful synthetic drugs."
Rep. Bill Johnson (R-OH): "The opioid crisis claims an average of 115 American lives every day. There is no simple solution that will solve this epidemic, but the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act is a significant step in the right direction in the fight against opioid abuse."
Rep. Brad Wenstrup (R-OH): "The signing of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act is another important step in our ongoing fight against the opioid crisis. It will help advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve addiction prevention, and bolster efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs like fentanyl."
Rep. Lou Barletta (R-PA): "I applaud President Trump for signing this important legislation into law and giving communities across Pennsylvania the tools they need to combat the opioid crisis."
Rep. Mike Kelly (R-PA): "The SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act is the most far-reaching congressional action against a single drug crisis in American history. ... It was a true honor to be at the White House with President Trump as he enacted this historic law and made every American family safer."
Rep. Keith Rothfus (R-PA): "In Western Pennsylvania and across the nation, the opioid crisis continues to destroy lives, hurt families, and plague entire communities ... I applaud President Trump for signing this much-needed legislation into law, which includes several of my bipartisan bills to help those suffering from an addiction and keep our loved ones and communities safe."
Rep. Jeff Duncan (R-SC): "This landmark legislation is aimed to advance treatment and recovery options, provide the much-needed resources to help communities, and strengthen the fight against illicit synthetic drugs. Too many families have been impacted by the scourge of the opioid epidemic, and I am thankful that Congress and President Trump came together to produce critical solutions to start addressing this ever-growing problem."
Rep. John Culberson (R-TX): "This comprehensive, bipartisan legislation fights back against the terrible opioid scourge. More relief for the #opioidcrisis is on the way!"
Rep. John Ratcliffe (R-TX): "I'm grateful @realDonaldTrump signed the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act (H.R. 6) today to combat the growing opioid crisis. This law will advance treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, and boost efforts to fight deadly illicit synthetic drugs."
Rep. Morgan Griffith (R-VA): "For all who are fighting the opioid crisis, the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act delivers help. It includes tools to treat addiction, reduce the availability of illegal substances, develop non-addictive painkillers, and gather more information about this epidemic. I was proud to be part of the major bipartisan effort that produced this law."
Rep. Dave Reichert (R-WA): "Proud to see the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act become law. This package addresses the tragic #opioidcrisis in WA08 & across the country. It includes legislation from the STOP Act that I supported to end the shipment of opioids through the international mail system."
Rep. Cathy McMorris Rodgers (R-WA): "This is the most comprehensive action we've taken to combat the opioid epidemic. It will bolster treatment and recovery initiatives, improve prevention, protect our communities, and fight synthetic drugs like fentanyl that are coming across our borders from China and Mexico."
Deputy Director of the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy James Carroll: "I want to thank the President and Members of Congress for leading this bipartisan effort to help prevent drug use, treat addiction locally, support Americans in recovery across their lifespan, and stop the flow of illicit drugs into their neighborhoods. By working together, we can save lives, strengthen our communities and safeguard our country."
State & Local Leaders
Gov. Asa Hutchinson (R-AR): "I applaud @realDonaldTrump's signing of the Patients and Communities Act earlier today. This $6B in funding will go a long way in combatting the opioid crisis in our communities. I commend @AGRutledge for her work on this issue & for representing AR at today's bill signing in DC."
Gov. Doug Ducey (R-AZ): ".@AZDHS Director @drcarachrist visited the @WhiteHouse today to witness the signing of a federal legislative package to address the opioid epidemic. In January #AZ passed the #ArizonaOpioidEpidemicAct. There's more work to be done, but it's great to see progress at all levels."
Gov. Charlie Baker (R-MA): "Here in Massachusetts our bipartisan efforts to curb the opioid crisis are making progress and this bipartisan effort by Congress and the Administration will help states' ongoing substance use prevention, treatment, training and recovery programs. All levels of government must continue to focus on this epidemic and work together to provide relief to the men and women struggling with an addiction."
Gov. Larry Hogan (R-MD): "Here in Maryland, Lt. Governor Rutherford and I, and our entire administration, have been fighting the heroin and opioid crisis for the past four years through a balanced approach of education and prevention, enforcement, and treatment and recovery efforts to save Marylanders' lives. This increased federal support is vital to our efforts."
Gov. Paul LePage (R-ME): "Maine is honored Beth Hamm, Acting Commissioner of @MaineDHHS, was invited to attend today's important #OpioidBill signing. States like Maine need flexibility and support in fighting the opioid crisis."
Gov. Rick Snyder (R-MI): "The opioid epidemic is hurting every community in this nation, which is why an all-hands-on-deck approach is necessary to help us truly combat this crisis. We have made some progress on this issue in Michigan, but we needed more help. We appreciate the President's partnership and congressional efforts on this national epidemic and look forward to working together to provide more life-saving resources to Michiganders."
Gov. Pete Ricketts (R-NE): "Time and again we see our troopers making life-saving drug seizures. Through work like that and efforts such as LB 931, which I signed into law earlier this year, we've got a strong team working together to combat opioid abuse in Nebraska. Thank you to President Trump for inviting Trooper Mortensen to join for this important occasion."
Gov. Henry McMaster (R-SC): "Thank you @realDonaldTrump for signing federal legislation that will complement the work we are doing in South Carolina to reduce the scourge of the opioid crisis. We were proud to be represented at the White House today by @SCDOADAS Director Sarah Goldsby and are thankful for the work she and her team are doing to lead a coalition of public and private entities across the state to address the problem."
Lt. Governor Brian Calley (R-MI): "It's fitting that this legislation, which will help us take our prevention and treatment efforts to the next level, was signed during Opioid Addiction Awareness Week in Michigan. The expansion of resources, especially Medically Assisted Treatment, will be a game-changer in our efforts to have more second chances and fewer funerals."
Alabama Attorney General Steve Marshall (R): "A major advance today in the war against America's opioid crisis as President Trump signs bipartisan legislation targeting opioid abuse. I applaud the President's leadership in prioritizing the goal of saving lives from opioid addiction."
Arkansas Attorney General Leslie Rutledge (R): "It was an honor today to represent Arkansans and continue my multifaceted approach to combat the opioid crisis by standing with @POTUS, @FLOTUS, law enforcement and the private sector. We must work together to end this epidemic."
Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi (R): "Honored to join @POTUS today as he signed the SUPPORT Act—the single largest legislative package addressing a single drug crisis in history. President Trump's leadership & support in combating the opioid crisis is tremendous & I'm grateful for all he is doing to help save lives."
Georgia Attorney General Chris Carr (R): "Today, @POTUS announced that $6 billion in new funding has been secured to fight the #opioidcrisis. We appreciate the Administration and all at the federal level who are working with state leadership to combat #opioidmisuse."
Louisiana Attorney General Jeff Landry (R): "Thank you @POTUS for signing the SUPPORT Act to combat the #OpioidCrisis. Louisiana is one of the top 10 states for opioid drug overdoses, with approximately 780 residents dying each year. Together we can end this crisis & save lives."
Utah Attorney General Sean Reyes (R): "Huge thanks to @POTUS! Trump leadership on fighting opioid epidemic invaluable. SUPPORT Act now signed! Brings desperately needed resources to communities around America. Excited Congress CAN get bipartisan bills through."
Nebraska State Patrol Superintendent Col. John Bolduc: "Our troopers and investigators have done a phenomenal job in the last year to take dangerous drugs like fentanyl and heroin off the streets. Without a doubt, they are saving lives with the work they are doing."
Nebraska State Trooper Samuel Mortensen: "It's a tremendous honor to be invited to represent the Nebraska State Patrol and all law enforcement at this event. The dangers associated with these drugs are astounding. We're proud to be a part of efforts like this that raise awareness and also have meaningful impacts in areas from prevention to recovery."
Companies & Policy Organizations
Amazon Vice President of Public Policy Brian Huseman: "Amazon will help first responders more efficiently access critical medical records and has programmed Alexa voice service to answer important questions about opioids and addiction."
Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO) CEO Michael Fraser: "The federal leadership and resources to address the crisis have greatly improved state capacity to respond by preventing overdose deaths, monitoring the epidemic, expanding access to treatment, and supporting addiction prevention and awareness campaigns. ... ASTHO looks forward to maintaining its partnership with the Administration and Congress to encourage sustained, predictable, and increased funding and enhanced programs to address substance abuse and misuse."
Indivior CEO Shaun Thaxter: "This bipartisan effort will improve the ability of patients with opioid use disorder (OUD) to access treatment and begin their path to recovery. This is critical in the fight against the increasing number of human lives lost to opioid overdose in the United States every year."
UPS Chairman and CEO David Abney: "The STOP Act will provide the necessary tools for our law enforcement agencies so they can better screen and intercept dangerous inbound packages."
  