
    
  Graham: "If You Want To Be Commander-In-Chief You Shouldn't Be Complicit In Lying To The American People About How Four People Died That Were On Your Watch To Protect."
  (Your World With Neil Cavuto, "Graham on Benghazi hearing: Clinton is a 'political animal,'" FOX News, 10/22/15)

Alexandria, VA - Yesterday, Senator Lindsey Graham appeared on Fox News'Your World with Neil Cavuto and joined the Hugh Hewitt show to respond to Hillary Clinton's testimony in the Benghazi hearing, as well as President Obama's decision to veto the Defense Act. In case you missed it, watch the full interview with Fox News here and Hugh Hewitt here.
Hugh Hewitt: "Perhaps Next To The Members Of The Benghazi Select Committee, The Individual On Capitol Hill Who Knows More About The Benghazi Attacks Is United States Senator Lindsey Graham."
Graham: "If She Didn't Know About This, She's Completely Checked Out Of Her Job And Not Fit To Be Commander-In-Chief."
(Hugh Hewitt, "Senator Lindsey Graham On Hillary' 'Smoking Gun' Email," The Hugh Hewitt Show, 10/22/15)

Graham: "That's Pretty Weird To Me When A Country's At War And The World Is On Fire And Our Military Is In Decline That The Commander-In-Chief Vetoes A Bill To Help The Military."
(Your World With Neil Cavuto, "Graham on Benghazi hearing: Clinton is a 'political animal,'" FOX News, 10/22/15)

"What's really weird to me is that the Secretary of State would sit on the sidelines and watch someone lie about what happened to their people and feel no need to correct the record. That's not just weird, that's unacceptable."
Graham On Hillary Clinton And Benghazi: "I Don't Know About Her Popularity, But I Think She Is Now Unfit To Be Commander-In-Chief."
"We found that Hillary Clinton on September 12th knew it was a terrorist attack, it had nothing to do with a protest, and she sat on the sidelines and listened Susan Rice lie to the American people. That bothers me. If you want to be Commander-in-Chief, you shouldn't be complicit in lying to the American people about how four people died that were on your watch to protect... I don't know about her popularity, but I think she is now unfit to be Commander-in-Chief." (Your World With Neil Cavuto, "Graham on Benghazi hearing: Clinton is a 'political animal,'" FOX News, 10/22/15)
  