
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that David Gallagher will serve as State Director of the Ohio Romney for President team. Gallagher brings nearly a decade of political experience and will be critical in growing Governor Romney's already strong grassroots organization in Ohio.
"I look forward to working with David as I campaign in Ohio and talk about my vision to build a stronger America," said Governor Romney. "We need to bring change to Washington and I will continue to talk to voters in Ohio and across the nation about my plans to keep our nation strong for future generations."
"Governor Romney is a proven leader and has the experience needed to bring conservative change to Washington," said Gallagher. "He will fight for lower taxes, to control government spending, to strengthen our military, and to build stronger American families. Governor Romney is a candidate Ohio voters can be proud to support."
David Gallagher joins previously announced Romney for President Ohio supporters State Senator Kevin Coughlin and State Representative Shannon Jones.
Background On David Gallagher:
David Gallagher Began His Political Career In 1998, Working On Nancy Hollister's Bid For Congress. Upon graduation from the University of Dayton in 2000, Gallagher worked for Senator Mike DeWine, both as an assistant in his office and a staff member at his headquarters. In 2003, Gallagher moved to the Ohio Republican Party's political staff where he focused on Central and Northwest Ohio elections. In the 2004 election, Gallagher aided and oversaw political operations in 18 county regions for Bush/Cheney while simultaneously working dozens of countywide elections for Ohio Republicans. Gallagher moved to Nevada in 2005 to work for a political consulting firm where he managed the Nevada State Treasurer's election, and work on the Lt. Governor and State Controller's elections. While in Nevada, he played a major role directing the Election Day 2006 voter turnout effort.
  