
    Young Americans for Biden and Students for Biden hosted a National Student and Youth Phone Bank Day of Action in partnership with College Democrats, High School Democrats, and Young Democrats of America, on Tuesday, October 27. The event featured guest panelist, actress and musician, Rachel Zegler, who spoke about the importance of this election as a young American and why she's supporting Joe Biden and Kamala Harris. The event was co-led by campus and youth vote staffers Jonathan Hildner, Biden for President Georgia Youth Vote Director, Jacob Caynon, Texas Democratic Party millennial/gen z organizer, and Sierra Yamanaka, deputy coalitions director at Mission for Arizona. Volunteers were divided into different breakout groups by state, and were assisted by state-based staff as they made calls to voters in Georgia, Arizona, and Texas.
See below for highlights from the event: 
"Biden's message– restore the soul of the nation, rebuild the middle class, and unite the country – has only taken on greater meaning during this duel public health and economic crisis," said Rachel Zegler. "Joe has given his life to public service fighting for working families, for civil rights and voting rights, for equal pay for all of us. And the most important thing we can do right now is accept responsibility to make sure that we're able to tell our kids, and our grandkids, that we gave it all to protect the soul of our nation. Joe's faith in the American people has never been stronger. Because he knows when you give ordinary Americans a fighting chance they do extraordinary things. And on November 3, I know we can prove victorious again, as long as we put in the work today."
"The work that's been going on in Georgia has been phenomenal. You know we now have representation at about every college, every large university is represented, but about every college in Georgia's been represented as well," said Jonathan Hildner, Biden for President Georgia Youth Vote Director. "Many of those students are on this call now, if you want to wave. They've been sign waving, chalking, passing out lit. They've just been phenomenal. I think for them they've realized that without them Georgia doesn't flip. If you look at the numbers, I mean young Americans specifically between 18 and 29, African-American and all other races, have turned out in amazing numbers. "
"We like to say that Texas is the biggest battleground state, and we keep proving that every single day (with the) highest youth vote numbers in the entire country – including states like California who have more people than us," said Jacob Caynon, Texas Democratic Party millennial/gen z constituency organizer. "We're so excited about the work that's going on here. But we're also so excited about all of the organizers on the ground that have been doing this work. We have a lot of partner organizations that are amazing. And we're also represented on campuses across the state. There's some of the biggest campuses in the country inside of Texas. Like Texas A&M and UT Austin, that have over 50,000 students each. And we're seeing that the counties that those schools are located in are having huge early vote numbers as well. So we're just really excited about the work we're getting done in Texas."
"(We're) so excited to flip Arizona blue this year. And we have the great opportunity to not only get Arizona's eleven electoral votes for Joe Biden and Kamala Harris, but also to elect an astronaut, and send him to the Senate. That's just such a great opportunity," said Sierra Yamanaka, deputy coalitions director at Mission for Arizona. "We also have been really active on campuses across the state. We had Sohpia Bush at the University of Arizona yesterday, and that was a really fun event. There's a ton of enthusiasm, young people are really excited to vote. Arizona is a primarily vote by mail state, and today is the last recommended day for people to put their ballots in the mail. So there are a lot of voters who we need to get that message out to, and you all can be really helpful in that. So I look forward to having your help tonight."
  