
    "You're just gonna bury all of us man," a Biden insider told the Navy veteran.
In an explosive interview, Tony Bobulinski, a former business associate of Hunter Biden, detailed how he met with Joe Biden, his brother Jim, and his son Hunter regarding a lucrative financial deal with a Chinese energy company in 2017.
In addition to his firsthand story, Bobulinski provided a tape recording, texts, emails, and business records as supporting evidence for his claims about the Biden family's systematic use of Joe Biden's power and position to enrich themselves.
The former vice president was intimately involved in Hunter's schemes, according to Bobulinski, leading the Navy veteran to conclude that "Joe Biden and the Biden family are compromised."
Here are 9 must-watch moments from the whistleblower's shocking interview:

BobulinskisaidJoe Biden is lying when he claims he never talked with his family members about their foreign business deals. "When he states that, that's a blatant lie."
Bobulinskisaidthe Bidens wanted "plausible deniability" to conceal their foreign business deals. "I remember looking at Jim Biden and saying, 'How are you guys getting away with this? Aren't you concerned? And he looked at me and he laughed a little bit and said, 'plausible deniability.'"
Bobulinski broke downhowthe Bidens planned to ensure Joe Biden wouldpersonallyand secretlybenefitfrom an equity stake in a Chinese business deal. "I 1,000% sit here and know that the 'big guy' is referencing Joe Biden. That's crystal clear to me because I lived it. I met with the former vice president in person multiple times, and I had been meeting and talking with Hunter Biden and Jim Biden."
Bobulinski saidHunter Biden and his associates referred to Joe Biden as "the chairman." "I want to be very careful in front of the American people: that is not me writing that. That is not me claiming that. That is Hunter Biden writing on his own phone typing in that 'I spoke with my chairman,' referencing his father."
Bobulinski saidthe Chinese sought to lend millions of dollars to the "Biden family. "In that document, they referencing loaning $5 million to the 'BD family.'"
Bobulinski saidJoe Biden is compromised by the Chinese. "As a citizen and an American taxpayer, I'm very, very concerned."
Bobulinski, a Navy veteran, called outthe Biden camp for smearing him as a conduit of Russian disinformation, saying it was "disgusting." "I held a top secret clearance from the NSA and the DOE. I served this country for four years in one of the most elite environments in the world…and to have a congressman out there speaking about 'Russian disinformation,' or Joe Biden at a public debate referencing 'Russian disinformation' when he knows he sat face-to-face with me, that I traveled around the world with his son and his brother, to say that and associate that with my name is absolutely disgusting to me."
When Bobulinski demanded the Biden camp retract their smears about him being part of a Russian disinformation campaign and warned he would go public with what he knew if they did not, Biden insider Rob Walker told him, "You're just gonna bury all of us man."
Bobulinski saidthe only reason Hunter Biden was able toreap windfalls of foreign money from countries like Chinawas because of his father Joe Biden's influence. "The only thing that he had was the Biden family name and the fact that his father, at one point, was the sitting vice president, and potentially would run as the future president."

  