
    [1.] LOCK HAVEN, PENNSYLVANIA 10:25 p.m.)
Thank you, Senator, I appreciate that very much. We really didn't have a scheduled stop here, but I am so happy to see so many people turn out and have a chance to see what the President looks like and to hear something about what he believes in. You know, there has been so much publicity about your President not knowing where he is going or what he is doing or anything of the kind that people are surprised when they find that he does know where he is going, and he knows what he is doing.
This campaign has been a campaign of the people against special interests. And when you go to the polls to vote on November 2d, just bear in mind that you are voting for yourselves. If you vote in your own interest, you can't do but one thing, and that is vote the Democratic ticket straight.
I have made it perfectly plain from one end of the country to the other, that the Republicans conclusively showed what they believed in, when the 80th Congress met on the 3d day of January in 1947. That Congress was not one bit different from the ancient idea that the Republicans have always had, that special interest comes first.
Voice: The worst one's right here!
THE PRESIDENT. You are just as right as you can be, and that goes from the grassroots up. They haven't changed their position a bit.
Now, just do one thing in your own interest. When election day comes, don't do like you did in 1946. You know, two-thirds of you stayed at home in 1946, and one-third of the people of this country elected that good-for-nothing, "do-nothing" 80th Congress.
Those of you who stayed at home got just what you deserved. Now don't do that this time. Go out and vote your sentiments. Vote in your own interest. Then I won't have to be troubled with the housing shortage, I win still live in the White House for another 4 years.
I am sorry Margaret and Mrs. Truman are not with me today. But they had to stay at home and get ready for the final windup of this tour next week. You see, tomorrow afternoon I will leave Washington again and start for Chicago and Cleveland, and Boston and New York City, and Brooklyn and St. Louis, Mo., and finally wind up at home on November 1st, in Independence. Kansas City is a suburb of Independence. Then, on the next day, everybody will vote, I hope, and then on the 3d of November we will know what the answer is. And I think I know what it's going to be.
  