
    Pool Reports by David Gutman, The Seattle Times 



Sent:
Reports:




October 8, 202210:24 PDT

Seattle Jill Biden fundraiser -- pool report #1
First Lady Jill Biden is expected to speak around noon Pacific time at a private fundraiser for U.S. Sen. Patty Murray, D-Wash., who is running for a sixth term.
The fundraiser is being held at The Century Ballroom, on the second floor of the historic (1908) Oddfellows Building in Seattle's Capitol Hill neighborhood.The room -- hardwood floor, balcony and pressed tin balustrade ringing three sides -- is set up with seating for about 180.
Murray campaign signs frame the stage.A bartender is serving mimosas. Guests -- including travel writer and TV host Rick Steves -- began to arrive at 9:30 a.m. Stationary hors d'oeuvres include miniature spinach and bacon quiches, phyllo cups with chevre and fig jam, sausage and pepper frittata, mini croissants with raspberry jam and melon skewers with mint-lime honey.
Every seat is affixed with a QR code that leads to Murray's campaign website, for easy donating.The scheduled slate of speakers: Metropolitan King County Councilmember Girmay Zahilay, Washington state Sen. Rebecca Saldaña, congressional candidate Maria Gluesenkamp Perez, U.S. Rep. Suzan DelBene, Washington state Democratic Party Chair Tina Podlodowski, U.S. Rep. Kim Schrier, Gov. Jay Inslee, U.S. Sen. Maria Cantwell, U.S. Sen. Patty Murray, First Lady Jill Biden.



October 8, 202211:24 PDT

Seattle Jill Biden fundraiser -- pool report #2
The First Lady made a brief appearance in an entry foyer at 11:11 a.m., before walking with Sen. Murray and a phalanx of photographers and staff into a side room.
Speakers began at 11:14, with King County Councilmember Girmay Zahilay.
The room is about half full.



October 8, 202211:46 PDT

Seattle Jill Biden fundraiser -- pool report #3
The first 25 minutes of speakers -- Zahilay, Saldana, Gluesenkamp Perez, DelBene and Podlodowski -- generally spoke for about three to six minutes a piece.
They touted Murray's accomplishments. Gluesenkamp spoke of the "danger" of her opponent, Joe Kent, calling him a "violent, divisive conspiracy theorist."
DelBene urged door knocking. Podlodowski asked for donations: "Again, scan that QR code if you haven't."Every speaker talked about protecting reproductive rights (among other topics).
People filtered in throughout and by 11:40 a.m., the room was largely full.



October 8, 202212:42 PDT

Seattle Jill Biden fundraiser -- pool report #4
Gov. Jay Inslee spoke for about five minutes and called this election "the most consequential year for the existence, the continued existence of democracy, literally on the planet, since the election of 1860."
Both Inslee and Sen. Maria Cantwell made jokes about Murray's height.
"Packed into, whatever it is, 5-foot, 4-inches, is a lot of dynamite," Cantwell said.
Cantwell, speaking for about 13 minutes, lauded Murray's work on health care, paid family leave, child care, the environment and abortion rights, among other issues.
"There is no better leader in the United States Senate on a woman's right to choose," Cantwell said of Murray. Of Republicans, Cantwell said that curtailing abortion "is the epicenter of their party and their party politics."



October 8, 202213:00 PDT

Seattle Jill Biden fundraiser -- pool report #5
First Lady Biden took the stage with Sen. Murray at 12:07 p.m.
Wearing a black, flowered dress she sat in a red arm chair on stage as Murray spoke from a lectern.
Murray said she decided to run for reelection (a sixth term) on Jan. 6, 2021.
"I was locked in my office in the Capitol as insurrectionists stormed the halls of Congress to stop the peaceful transfer of power with brute force," Murray said. "It really hit me that day, our demcoracy doesn't just happen, we have to fight for it."
Murray shifted immediately to talking about abortion rights, saying Democrats need 52 senators to pass a bill protecting abortion rights nationwide.
First Lady Biden nodded and clapped.
Likewise, Murray said Democrats need 52 senators to pass voting rights legislation.
Biden shook her head as Murray said, "My opponent won't even admit that Joe Biden was fairly elected in 2020."
Murray recited a recent string of Democratic accomplishments -- the infrastructure bill, the Inflation Reduction Act, the PACT Act, the CHIPS Act.
Murray spoke for just over 16 minutes, introducing Jill Biden at 12:25 p.m.



October 8, 202212:59 PDT

Seattle Jill Biden fundraiser -- pool report #6
First Lady Biden spoke for about 13 minutes, and received a standing ovation. She and Murray raised their arms, holding hands triumphantly. She then left the stage at 12:39 p.m. Her motorcade left the venue at 12:50, presumably headed to her scheduled 1 p.m. event at Seattle's Pacific Science Center.
Biden spoke about abortion in strikingly personal terms, telling a story from her childhood.
Her parents, she said, voted Republican, but "didn't talk about it at the dinner table."
They didn't debate Senate bills, she said, but knew about the things that affected their lives: schools, jobs, affordable health care, safe neighborhoods.
In the late 1960s, when she was 17, Biden said, her friend got pregnant. Abortion was illegal in Pennsylvania.
Her friend said the only way to get an abortion was to get a psychiatric evaluation and be declared mentally unfit.
"I went to see her in the hospital and then I cried the whole way home," Biden said. When the friend was discharged from the hospital, Biden said, she couldn't go home so "I gathered my courage and asked my mom can she come stay with us."
"Of course she can," Biden recalled her mom saying.
"She never told a soul. We never spoke about it again. Secrecy, shame, silence, danger, even death. That's what defined that time for so many women."
She assailed Republicans for pushing to pass abortion bans and urged the crowd to reelect Murray.
"Politics isn't a game, and there are no spectators," she said. "There's just too much at stake."




 
Pool Reports below by David Kroman, The Seattle Times 



Sent:
Reports:




October 8, 202213:03 PDT

FLOTUS Pool Report #1 from Pac. Science Center
Following a fundraiser on Capitol Hill for Sen. Patty Murray, First Lady Dr. Jill Biden is due to arrive at the Pacific Science Center – which is on the Seattle Center campus near the Space Needle – where she'll host a "Hidden Helpers Coalition" event with the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and Wounded Warrior Project. She'll be joined by Sen. Murray, Secretary ofU.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough, and CEO of the Elizabeth Dole Foundation Steve Schwab.
Background on the event from the White House is below.
When she arrives, she'll do a brief tour of the science center, stopping at two exhibits – an interactive water exhibit for young children and an exhibit on healthy watersheds – and interacting with families She'll then participate in a roundtable conversation with two caregivers, Kristin Christensen and her daughter Avarie, about their experiences in caregiving.
The science center was built in preparation for the 1962 World's Fair. From the outside, it is defined by its signature white arches, designed by architect Minoru Yamasaki. On the inside, it is divided into multiple large rooms, each with different themes and exhibits. One room near where the first lady will tour contains large, animatronic dinosaurs. A soundtrack plays over the speakers of dinosaur calls and cicadas. Other exhibits include an inflated globe with images of the cosmos projected onto it.
In the hours before Dr. Biden's tour, families began to arrive and mingle in the science center, exploring the various exhibits.
BACKGROUND FROM WHITE HOUSE:
Background | First Lady Jill Biden Hosts a Hidden Helpers Coalition Event with the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and Wounded Warrior Project at the Pacific Science Center, Seattle, WA
On Saturday, October 8th, at 12:45 PM PT, as part of the White House's Joining Forces initiative, the First Lady, Senator Patty Murray, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough, and CEO of the Elizabeth Dole Foundation Steve Schwab will attend a Hidden Helpers Coalition event with the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and Wounded Warrior Project at the Pacific Science Center in Seattle, WA. The event will celebrate children in military and veteran caregiving families ("hidden helpers") at the Pacific Science Center in Seattle, WA.
During the event, the First Lady, Senator Murray, Secretary McDonough, and Steve Schwab will meet with Hidden Helpers and their parents, who have been invited to enjoy the day at the Pacific Science Center. This day will serve to increase connectedness amongst Hidden Helpers, a population in need of more peer-to-peer engagement and support. The First Lady, Senator Patty Murray, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough, and CEO of the Elizabeth Dole Foundation Steve Schwab will also participate in a roundtable conversation with two caregivers, Kristin Christensen and her daughter Avarie, about their experiences in caregiving.
Hidden Helpers Coalition:In April 2021, through Joining Forces, the First Lady partnered with the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and Wounded Warrior Project® to launch the Hidden Helpers Coalition, an initiative designed to create supportive programming for and bring awareness to the 2.3 million children of wounded, ill or injured service members or veterans.
On November 10, 2021, First Lady Jill Biden, Senator Elizabeth Dole, Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough, and Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III, alongside the Hidden Helpers Coalition of more than 75 public and private sector organizations, announced a series of commitments to support children in military or veteran caregiving families and enhance the support services available to them. Nearly 40 unique commitments for new and expanded resources, programs, and financial pledges mark a significant and unprecedented leap forward in how America supports its more than 2.3 million military-connected caregiver children and youth.
The White House's Joining Forces, the Elizabeth Dole Foundation, and the Wounded Warrior Project chair a coalition of more than 75 partners, representing key areas including healthcare, education, philanthropy, youth development, and military families. The Hidden Helpers Coalition aims to:

Amplify America's understanding of veterans' wounds and children and youth in caregiving homes.
Develop programs and interventions focused on peer support, mental health, and age-appropriate developmental opportunities.
Fund, promote, and create resources for the entire family unit.
Reduce healthcare barriers and provide centralized comprehensive services for supporting the whole family.

As part of this announcement in November 2021, Wounded Warrior Project pledged the largest investment in supporting Hidden Helpers programming, with a commitment of $1.5 million that will directly align with the research findings and sustain a new culture of support for military children and youth nationwide.
About Joining Forces: First Lady Jill Biden reignited Joining Forces in April 2021, after its inception with former First Lady Michelle Obama in 2011. Joining Forces is a White House initiative to support military families, which includes: families of service members and veterans, caregivers and survivors. Joining Forces' work is driven by their experiences. Learn more here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/joiningforces/
About Elizabeth Dole Foundation and Hidden Heroes:The Elizabeth Dole Foundation is the preeminent organization empowering, supporting, and honoring our nation's 5.5 million military caregivers – the spouses, parents, family members, and friends who care for America's wounded, ill or injured veterans at home. Founded by Senator Elizabeth Dole in 2012, the Foundation adopts a comprehensive approach in its support and advocacy, working with leaders in the public, private, nonprofit, and faith communities to recognize military caregivers' service and promote their well-being. Learn more about the Elizabeth Dole Foundation at >>www.hiddenheroes.org<<;.
Wounded Warrior Project:Since 2003, Wounded Warrior Project® (WWP) has been meeting the growing needs of warriors, their families, and caregivers — helping them achieve their highest ambition. The Wounded Warrior Project's mission is to honor and empower wounded warriors and their families. The WWP serves warriors, their families, and caregivers through free programs that assist them with physical and mental health, financial wellness, independence, and connecting them with supportive communities. Warriors and their loved ones never pay a penny for WWP programs – because they paid their dues on the battlefield. As part of theannouncement in November 2021, Wounded Warrior Project pledged the largest investment in supporting Hidden Helpers programming, with a commitment of $1.5 million that will directly align with the research findings and sustain a new culture of support for military children and youth nationwide.
Senator Patty Murray:As the daughter of a World War II veteran and a leader on the Senate Veterans' Affairs Committee, Senator Murray is committed to making sure our country fulfills its promise to care for our veterans long after they return home from duty. In the Senate, she has fought for increased benefits, housing assistance, accountability to ensure veterans get the care they deserve, and new veterans clinics throughout Washington state. Senator Murray has fought to strengthen support for veteran caregivers by passing the Military and Veteran Caregiver Services Improvement Act of 2015 and the VA MISSION Act of 2018 which expanded the caregiver program to veterans of all era. Earlier this year, Senator Murray helped pass the PACT Act, a historic expansion of health care for veterans, which will expand medical benefits to over 100,000 veterans in Washington state who were exposed to toxic burn pits while serving overseas. As part of the PACT Act, she was also able to secure federal funding for a new VA clinic in the Tri-Cities. Senator Murray also introduced the Helping Heroes Act of 2022, a bipartisan bill that would support the families of disabled veterans, including children who take on caregiving roles. The Helping Heroes Act of 2022 recognizes the work done by the approximately 2.3 million children under the age of 18 living in a household with a disabled veteran and seeks to provide critical support and assistance to these children in accessing local, state, and federal resources.



October 8, 202213:40 PDT

FLOTUS Pool Report #2 from Pac. Science Center
FLOTUS, Dr. Jill Biden, arrived at the Pacific Science Center in Seattle Center with Sen. Patty Murray and Secretary of U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough at 1:03 pm. Seattle Deputy Mayor Monisha Harrell and Rep. Kim Schrier arrived shortly before.
Biden and Murray both walked to a play area for young children. They sat with several children as they played with a water exhibit. Biden asked one, "What are you guys doing?" and the children proceeded to show them the plastic toys they were using.
One child asked to show Dr. Biden something. Biden followed to an elevated play area where she and Murray watched a gaggle of kids play with building blocks.
Biden, Murray and McDonagh then walked to an exhibit on watersheds of the Puget Sound. One young person handed Dr. Biden a letter, asked for a selfie and exchanged a few words that this reporter couldn't hear.
Biden, Murray and McDonagh huddled over the watershed exhibit with a small crowd of young people for several minutes before moving to an area set up for a roundtable discussion with caregivers.



October 8, 202214:20 PDT

Pool report #3 from Pac. Science Center
After mingling with military families on the floor of the Pacific Science Center, Dr. Jill Biden, Sen. Patty Murray, VA Secretary Denis McDonough and CEO of the Elizabeth Dole Foundation Steve Schwab sat down with Kristin Christensen and her daughter Avarie to discuss caring for a loved one struggling with the aftermath of war – the focus of the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and Hidden Heroes.
Shortly after sitting, Biden, wearing a blue dress with floral patterns, remarked, "I've never seen Seattle with this much sunshine."
Biden remarked that, now that the country is not in an active war, "A lot of American tend to forget about the military families and what they're still going through."
Schwab then remarked, "It's our responsibility as a country… to support these families, to welcome them to embrace them and to help support their loved ones."
Kristin Christensen spoke about how her husband had been traumatized by war. He did not have any visible injuries, she said his PTSD and a traumatic brain injury means he needs care from her and her daughter, Avarie. She said there are certain routes they avoid while driving because if it's too bumpy it is triggering to her husband, who was "blown up too many times."
"You never know what your day's going to be like, whether it's a good day or a bad day," said Avarie.
Biden asked how Kristen Christensen copes. Christensen said for a while she didn't, but has found support in the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and Hidden Heroes.
Sen. Murray said, "Sometimes for one of our hidden helpers it's just about knowing someone is there."
VA Secretary McDonough said, "We just don't want to let any of these helpers, hidden and otherwise, down. That's direction from the top," referring to President Joe Biden.
Dr. Biden then thanked the press and said, "We need to continue to support the men and women who have had our backs."
Biden then exchanged more words with Kristen and Avarie that were not audible.
Biden then walked outside to briefly greet a crowd of families associated with Hidden Heroes before departing the Pacific Science Center at 2:04 pm.




  