
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced Missouri Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson has endorsed Mayor Giuliani for President. Emerson will serve as
Chair of Giuliani's Missouri campaign.
Emerson, serving her sixth term in the U.S. House of Representatives, will help grow the Mayor's team in Missouri. She was the first Republican woman to represent Missouri in Congress.
"I'm proud to support Mayor Giuliani for President because he offers the best vision for our nation," said Congresswoman Emerson. "His commitments to protecting American families and advocating fiscally conservative polices are important to Missourians, and I know Rudy is the only candidate who can beat the Democrats next fall."
"Congresswoman Emerson is another great addition to our team," said Michael DuHaime, Giuliani's National Campaign Manager. "She is a leader for Missouri families, supporting fiscal responsibility and a strong national defense. Jo Ann will be a great advocate for the Mayor in Missouri."
Congresswoman Emerson's endorsement is the first of several upcoming additions to the Mayor's Missouri team.
About Congresswoman Jo Ann Emerson:
Congresswoman Emerson represents the 28 counties of Southern Missouri's agriculturally diverse Eighth District. She is a member of the House Appropriations Committee, sitting on the Agriculture, Interior, and Energy and Water Development Subcommittees.
Currently, Congresswoman Emerson serves as Vice President of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and vice-chair of the Assembly's subcommittee on Democratic Governance. She is also a co-chair of the Board of Directors for the Congressional Hunger Center and an Honorary and Life Trustee of Westminster College. A former Girl Scout, she is also a leading supporter of the organization in Congress. In February of 2005, she chaired the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington.
Congresswoman Emerson earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Ohio Wesleyan University. Previously, she has worked as Senior Vice President of Public Affairs for the American Insurance Association, Director of State Relations and Grassroots Programs for the small-business oriented National Restaurant Association, and Deputy Communications Director for the National Republican Congressional Committee.
Congresswoman Emerson is married to Ron Gladney and is the proud mother of two daughters, five stepdaughters and one stepson, and grandmother of three grandchildren.
  