
    New York outlets are reporting on Micron Technology Inc.'s historic multi-billion dollar investment in Upstate New York to construct the largest semiconductor manufacturing facility in the U.S., creating tens of thousands of good paying jobs.
The announcement, which President Biden called "another win for America," is just the latest investment in America spurred by the President's economic plan and his commitment to rebuilding American manufacturing. Micron CEO Sanjay Mehrotra credited the CHIPS and Science Act – which President Biden signed into law this past August – as being directly responsible for Micron's investment in New York, saying in a statement that "there is no doubt that without the CHIPS Act, we would not be here today."
It comes on the heels of last month's pledge from Wolfspeed that it will invest $5 billion on a new chipmaking facility in North Carolina, and the groundbreaking of Intel's new $20 billion facility in Ohio.
Read below for a sampling of the coverage: 
Syracuse Post-Standard (Syracuse.com) : Biden: Micron's computer chip deal in Syracuse area 'another win for America' "To those who doubted that America could dominate the industries of the future, I say this – you should never bet against the American people," Biden said in a statement. … "Today is another win for America, and another massive new investment in America spurred by my economic plan," Biden said. "Micron, an American company, is investing $20 billion dollars this decade and up to $100 billion over 20 years in chips manufacturing in Upstate New York, creating tens of thousands of good paying jobs." … White House chief of staff Ron Klain called Micron's commitment to build at White Pine Commerce Park in the town of Clay "one of the largest industrial job-creating projects in U.S. history."
CNY Central: President, local lawmakers react to Micron choosing Central New York for plant President Biden is among those reacting to the announcement, releasing the following statement: "To those who doubted that America could dominate the industries of the future, I say this – you should never bet against the American people. Today is another win for America, and another massive new investment in America spurred by my economic plan. Micron, an American company, is investing $20 billion dollars this decade and up to $100 billion over twenty years in CHIPS manufacturing in upstate New York, creating tens of thousands of good paying jobs. Together, we are building an economy from the bottom up and the middle out, where we lower costs for our families and make it right here in America."
New York Daily News: Micron to build massive Syracuse, N.Y. factory; Schumer hails 'Erie Canal moment' The project was supercharged by bipartisan legislation, shepherded through the Senate by Schumer and signed by President Biden, that authorized more than $50 billion in semiconductor manufacturing investments. … And it was boosted by a New York law signed by Hochul that created incentives of up to $10 billion for eco-friendly semiconductor manufacturing projects. Micron's plan for the plant includes commitments to use 100% renewable electricity and to aim for zero landfill waste, among other green pledges. … Micron's chief executive, Sanjay Mehrotra, credited both the passage of the federal measure, called the CHIPS and Science Act, and the state Green CHIPS law for making the Clay project possible.
Spectrum NY1: Micron to open 'transformational' chip plant in Syracuse suburb, bring thousands of jobs "After years and years of hard work, it's official. Micron is coming to Central New York. If there's a word to describe to today it's transformational; for upstate New York, for America. It will be the most advanced chip manufacturer in America and probably the world, all here in Central New York," [Senate Majority Leader Chuck] Schumer said in a statement. "We invented the chip in America and once again we are going to make them here in America. We will bring these jobs back from foreign shores and end our dependence on foreign chips."
WAER (Syracuse University, NY): It's official: Micron chip maker is moving in to the Town of Clay The plan would create the "largest semiconductor fabrication facility in the history of the U.S.," according to a release from Micron. The company expects the project to create tens of thousands of jobs in the region over the next 20 years. … U.S. Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-NY) said at the announcement hosted by Syracuse University the development's significance is similar to the 19th century opening of the Erie Canal, which brought an influx of jobs and industrial progress. … "New Yorkers and Americans will look back 50 years from now and remember this project as our Erie Canal moment," said Schumer, who was joined on stage by the governor, Onondaga County executive and Micron CEO.
Albany Times Union: Schumer unveils Micron's plans to build $100 billion chip fab outside Syracuse Micron Technology, one of the world's largest computer chip manufacturers, has picked the Syracuse suburbs for a new $100 billion semiconductor factory that could create 50,000 jobs and likely cements Albany Nanotech as the choice for a new billion-dollar national chip research lab. … New York state has offered Micron $5 billion in state tax breaks to land what is the largest economic development deal in state history and one of the largest semiconductor projects in U.S. history. Micron would spend $20 billion through 2030 as it ramps up operations. Construction would begin in 2024. New York would add another $500 million in job training support.
The New York Times: Micron Pledges Up to $100 Billion for Semiconductor Factory in New York The commitment by Micron is a sign that the federal government's prodding and package of generous incentives are helping to steer investment decisions. Legislation that passed in August, the CHIPS and Science Act of 2022, provides $52 billion in grants and subsidies for companies to build and expand computer chip factories in the country. … "There is no doubt that without the CHIPS Act, we would not be here today," said Sanjay Mehrotra, chief executive of Micron. … The legislation, and favorable tax treatment and partnerships with state governments like New York, are key ingredients needed to match the subsidies offered by Asian nations and "bring chip-making back to America," Mr. Mehrotra said
Associated Press: Micron to bring microchip plant to upstate New York Micron, one of the world's largest microchip manufacturers, announced Tuesday it would open a semiconductor plant in upstate New York, promising a long-term investment of up to $100 billion and a plant that could bring 50,000 jobs to the state. … The company was lured to the Syracuse area with help from a generous set of federal, state and local incentives, including up to $5.5 billion in state tax credits over 20 years.
  