
    The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Fahad Bin Abdul-Aziz Al-Saud, King of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia held a meeting with his excellency President William Clinton, during his Excellency's current visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, on Friday the 23d of Jumda Al-Awal, 1415, A.H., corresponding to the 28th of October, 1994.
In this meeting, the two leaders reviewed bilateral relations along with regional and international issues of common interest. In this regard, there was an expression of deep satisfaction at the level of bilateral relations and a mutual readiness to promote and develop their relations in a way that serves the common interests of the two countries and the well-being of the two peoples as well as contribute to the security and development of the whole region.
In addition, the two leaders discussed recent developments related to the peace process in the Middle East. On this matter, the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, with great satisfaction, noted the relentless efforts of President Clinton and his government to move ahead the peace process and emphasized support for all the agreements already reached. On his part, President Clinton expressed his appreciation for King Fahad's support for the Israel-PLO agreements and the Israel-Jordan Peace Treaty and for his promotion and enhancement of the peace process. In particular the President expressed appreciation to him and his counterparts in the Gulf Cooperation Council for ending their enforcement of the secondary and tertiary boycotts. Both leaders emphasized their commitment to continue efforts to achieve concrete progress in the Israeli-Syrian and Israeli-Lebanese track. The two leaders took cognizance of the fact that a permanent and comprehensive peace in the area must be based on the Security Council Resolutions 242, 338 as well as the Principle of Land for peace.
During the talks, the two leaders also examined current threats that endanger regional peace and security, notably, the recent Iraqi violation of Security Council Resolutions and confirm the ill intentions of the Iraqi Government and its continued aggressive policies that threaten the security and stability of the Gulf area.
They also noted the provisions of Security Council Resolution number 949, underscoring their firm resolve to prevent Saddam Hussein from again posing a threat to Iraq's neighbors, particularly, the security of the State of Kuwait and future stability of the region. The two leaders voiced their view that any attempt to lift or alleviate the sanctions on Iraq will continue to be premature as long as Iraq does not comply fully and comprehensively with all the Security Council Resolutions that pertain to its aggression on the State of Kuwait. Consequently, any other efforts, inconsistent with the Security Council Resolutions, would only result in encouraging the Iraqi regime to continue its aggressive policies and to flout the will of the international community.
The two leaders emphasized that they had no quarrel with the Iraqi people with whose plight they sympathize. They drew attention to the humanitarian provisions of the UNSC resolutions which the Iraqi regime has failed to take up. The responsibility for the hardship of the Iraqi people lies entirely with the Iraqi regime.
The United States and Saudi Arabia condemn all terrorist activities. We are united against all the enemies of peace, those who threaten aggression and those who kill innocent people and whose real target is peace itself. In this way, we will widen the circle of peacemakers and promote reconciliation between them.
  