
    Pool Reports by Thomas Howell, The Washington Times



Sent:
Reports:




 October 2, 2020 10:30

 In-town pool #1 — Good morning 
Hello from the WH where it is 61 degrees and sunny.
Pool was tested this morning for the virus although there is noexpectation of interaction with the president, who tested positive forCOVID-19.
POTUS's travel this evening was canceled, leaving only a call onCOVID-19 and vulnerable seniors at 12:15 p.m. The call is closedpress.
Your pooler saw a few WH aides this morning and they were all wearing masks.
I'll let you know if anything changes. We expect Chief of Staff MarkMeadows to gaggle at some point. Will keep you updated.
Thank you. 


 October 2, 2020 10:49

 In-town pool #2 — Meadows gaggle 
Chief of staff Mark Meadows came out to talk at the sticks...recommend finding TV or CSPAN clip as available, but here are rush quotes:
Says it was a great jobs report
On first couple:"They remain in good spirits, the president does have mild symptoms"
Pres again in "In good spirits" and "very energetic"
Trump still doling out tasks to Meadows
"His first question to me this morning is how is the economy doing how are the stimulus talks" on Cap Hill?
"We have a president that is not only on the job he will remain on the job"
Won't discuss symptoms, doc is in WH residence "now"
Hope Hicks: says discovered her test "as Marine One was taking off" yesterday and pulled some off trip
Says he's not wearing a mask bc he was tested 


 October 2, 2020 10:54

 In-town pool #3 — more Meadows 
Meadows:Says "core staff" from AF1 Wednesday have been tested and Kushner, Scavino and himself tested negative
Ended gaggle without answering questions about president's work setup moving forward, technical nature of whether Trump had rapid test vs. other type of diagnostic
'We'll have future updates" 


 October 2, 2020 11:04

 In-town pool #4 — fuller Meadows 
Mark Meadows:
(these are from his opening remarks to gaggle):
Mentions unemployment down below 8% in recent economic report:
Topline:"Unfortunately, that's not what everybody's focused on this morning. As all of you know, the president and the first lady tested positive for COVID-19. They remain in good spirits. The president does have mild symptoms and as we look to try to make sure that no only his health and safety and welfare is good, we continue to look at that for all of the American people."
Good spirits:"He continues to be not only in good spirits but very energetic. We talked a number of times this morning. I got the five or six things that he had tasked me to do, like I do every single morning. He is certainly wanting to make sure we stay engaged."
Doctors:"The doctors continue to monitor both his health and the health of the first lady. We'll continue to do that. They'll be glad to provide some updates later today as we look at this."
"The great thing about this president is not only is he staying committed to working very hard on behalf of the American people, his first question to me this morning was: 'How is the economy doing, how are the stimulus talks going on Capitol Hill?'"
Testing:"A number of in the core team of the White House continue to get tested on a daily basis like we are, like we have been. As we look to that, we're very excited about making sure that not only that the health and safety of the president and first lady is addressed, but certainly that we address this battle together, as a nation, together, and the American people can rest assured we have a president that is not only on the job, will remain on the job — and I'm optimistic he'll have a very quick and speedy recovery." 


 October 2, 2020 11:19

 In-town pool #5 — Meadows Q&A portion 
Clip is up, but here's a rundown if helpful:https://www.c-span.org/video/?476530-1/mark-meadows-speaks-reporters-pre...
Q&A:
Question about symptoms and whether he's taking hydroxy:
Meadows:"I'm not going to go into any particular treatment that he may or may not have. He has mild symptoms, as we look at that, the doctor will continue to provide expertise in the residence. He's in the residence now."
[presumably means president here}: "In true fashion, he's probably critiquing the way that I'm answering these questions, and I can tell you that a number of us will be reporting back to him on the task at hand."
Question about Hope Hicks, whether they sat on news:
"I'm not going to get into the tick tock, I can tell you in terms of Hope Hicks, we discovered that right as the Marine One was taking off yesterday, we actually pulled some of the people that had been traveling and in close contact.
The reason why it is was reported out was just frankly is that we had already started the contact tracing just prior to that event. As you know, last night even in the early hours of this morning, the minute we got a confirmatory test on the president we felt like it was important to get the news out there at that time. So that's why we sent out the tweet late, or actually early, this morning."
Question on why Meadow's not wearing a mask:
"I've obviously been tested, we're hopefully more than 6 feet away, and if there's any concern there from a guidance standpoint — we have protocols in place. Early on, when we first started to tackle the COVID-19 battle, we actually did two different things in the White House — a number of contingencies as we looked at not only additional testing but certainly mitigating the risks, for social distancing in private meetings and the like.
I think it goes to the broader question. Even with a lot of the mitigating factors, Jim , what you have is a virus that is contagious, that certainly continues to be, regardless of whatever protocol we have — that it has the ability to affect everybody, as you know, the president, we keep a pretty wide circle. All of you who have interacted with him know that.
Even with that wide circle around the president, we find that he's having to deal with this like so many other millions of other Americans and people around the world have had to.
I can tell you that what we're doing is focusing on the therapeutics, the vaccines, continuing to do that. And that doesn't change."
Question about officials on flight with president on Wednesday:
"We've tested all of our core staff and I can tell you that Mr. Kushner, Mr. Scavino, and myself, a number of us have been tested and have come back with negative results. At the same time, I fully expect that as this virus continues to go on other people in the White House will certainly have a positive test result and we've got the mitigation plan in place to make sure the government not only continues to move forward but the work of the American people continues to move forward. Even as recent as this morning, a little after 8 o'clock, the president was giving me a number of things to make sure that I get done and I'm sure that I will actually have those due-outs have to be back to him later today."
[As he ended gaggle after nearly 8 minutes:]"We'll have future updates, I'll be glad to do that." 


 October 2, 2020 12:22

 In-town pool #6 — Kudlow gaggle 
Larry Kudlow gaggled outside; your pooler got there after he began, but he was talking about a surge in car sales…some highlights:
He wasn't wearing a mask at first, explaining:"Because I'm talking to you and we're distancing""I want you to hear me, but I'm happy to do it"
(He put on a mask after prodding from a reporter about setting an example for Americans)
On whether Trump's positive case will impact the economy; notes other heads of state have had virus and recovered:"I don't think it's going to have an effect""I think this will be over before long"
Says COVID protocols at WH remain in place:"We distance, including when we go in the Oval,"
Says they need a relief deal in Congress, because right now relief is "zero:""Let's find the key points and pass it""The airlines need some help"Mentions schools and getting them help to reopen 


 October 2, 2020 14:20

 In-town pool #7 — Kayleigh McEnany gaggle 
?https://www.c-span.org/video/?476545-1/white-house-press-secretary-updat...
Apologies, I thought this went out earlier but must have gotten stuck in my email.
Press Secretary McEnany stopped to talk in the driveway after a TV hit between 1:30 and 2 p.m.:
She did not say whether Trump received a PCR test or different form of COVID test, though noted the public learned of the positive result "within an hour"
She said Trump is still making calls, including to Leader McConnell and Sen. Lindsey Graham"He's hard at work despite the mild symptoms," she said.
[she was asked why Trump went to Bedminster after Hicks tested positive]
"It was deemed safe" by WH operations, she said.
She noted Trump was outside and socially distanced himself during event 


 October 2, 2020 14:35

 In-town pool #8 — Lunch lid until 3:30 p.m. 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.] 


 October 2, 2020 17:18

 In-town pool #9 — Statement from WH 
?"President Trump remains in good spirts, has mild symptoms, and has been working throughout the day. Out of an abundance of caution, and at the recommendation of his physician and medical experts, the President will be working from the presidential offices at Walter Reed for the next few days. President Trump appreciates the outpouring of support for both he and the First Lady."
- Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany 


 October 2, 2020 17:29

 In-town pool #10— pool gathered for South Lawn departure 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.] 


 October 2, 2020 18:21

 In-town pool #11— Departure from South Lawn 
POTUS exited WH from Diplomatic Entrance at 6:16 pm
He gave a thumbs up to pool and a short wave. Did not stop to talk.
Navy suit and blue tie. Wearing mask.
Walked normally on his own without any outward sign of trouble.
With Mark Meadows and a few others pool didn't recognize.
Marine One lift off at 6:20pm
Watch supplemental pool for landing/next report. 


 October 2, 2020 18:42

 In-town pool #12 — Travel/photo lid 
Thanks. 




Pool Reports below by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy



Sent:
Reports:




 October 2, 2020 17:13

 Supplemental pool report #1: Walter Reed 
A supplemental pool traveled to Walter Reed Military Medical Center in advance of the president's visit today. This information was not reportable until now.
We are awaiting the president
President Trump arrived at the landing zone at xx ime. 


 October 2, 2020 18:47

 Supplemental Pool Report #2: POTUS arrival 
The president arrived in Marine One at the Walter Reed Landing Zone at 6:29 PM.
He stepped down from the helicopter alone, wearing a black mask, and got into a black SUV. He was followed by a couple aides, including WH chief of staff Mark Meadows.
As the motorcade passed by the press pool, which was positioned across the street from the landing zone, the president -- seated on the right side of the vehicle -- waved at press through the left window of the vehicle.
Pool did not see him enter Walter Reed.
At 6:38 PM M1 departed the landing zone. 


 October 2, 2020 18:56

 Supplemental pool report #3: photos 
A lid has been called and supplemental pool is signing off.
Here are some photos from Walter Reed:
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/d0jqh10nsg6ij36/AABHWsTUBQCCwRouXIKWN_QMa?dl=0



  