
    Yesterday, President Biden announced the Build Back Better Framework, which makes transformative investment in climate, care, and kids, that will lower the costs of things families depend on, help people get back to work, and grow the economy.
The framework is designed to level the playing field and make corporations and the wealthiest pay their fair share, so that middle class families can finally get some breathing room.
The Build Back Better Framework will transform the lives of millions of children, saving parents thousands of dollars, and adding two years of free, universal schooling to our education system for the first time in over 100 years. It will be the largest effort to combat climate change in history. It will cut taxes for tens of millions of middle-class families. It is the biggest expansion of affordable health care in a decade. As the President said, it's a big darn deal.
Business leaders applauded the President and praised the framework.
See below for what they are saying:
Brad Smith, President, Microsoft: "The Build Back Better plan includes an important investment to combat the climate crisis. This is what the world needs to achieve the global carbon goals that are so urgently needed." [Tweet, 10/28/21]
General Motors: "General Motors applauds President Biden and those who have worked tirelessly to advance the Build Back Better Plan, and is pleased to see progress on legislation that will bring critical improvements to the country. Build Back Better lays the foundation for sustainability policies that will help address climate change and improve environmental quality and resiliency. GM supports those goals and, critically, we support those provisions that accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles and establish the U.S. as a global leader in electrification today, and into the future." [Statement, 10/28/21]
DHL: "Following today's announcements from the U.S Government on the Build Back Better Framework and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, below a statement by our CEO for #DHL Express #Americas." [Tweet, 10/28/21]
Tom Linebarger, Chairman and CEO, Cummins Inc.: "We are pleased with the progress that's been made on the Infrastructure, Investment and Jobs Act and the Build Back Better Act and encourage Congress to quickly pass the legislation, which contains important provisions to combat climate change. Passage of the infrastructure bill, and movement on the Build Back Better climate provisions ahead of the UN Climate Conference that begins next week would send a strong signal to global political and business leaders that the U.S. is committed to being part of a concerted effort to combat climate change, which is an existential threat facing us all. The decarbonization investments in both bills are critical to accelerating the adoption of innovations that can reduce emissions across the United States and set us on a path to a more sustainable future. We encourage Congress to act quickly and pass both pieces of legislation." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Small Business for America's Future: "The framework of a deal to pass the president's economic agenda announced today presents an opportunity to level the playing field for small business owners and transform our economy for the better. Investments in our workforce, the care economy, and infrastructure will invigorate the Main Street economy, and small business owners are eager to see it pass swiftly. While this framework is critical, we know it doesn't include everything the country needs. After we pass this deal, we must keep pushing for critical policies like paid family and medical leave for every American, policies that reduce healthcare costs for small businesses and even more reforms to build a more equitable tax system for small businesses. However, this historic deal begins to level the playing field for small businesses by closing corporate tax loopholes, which will help prevent large multinational corporations from dodging their responsibilities. It is encouraging to see steps taken to ensure corporations pay their fair share and help provide revenue for the important investments the deal makes. Small business owners are eager to see these investments because they help Main Street businesses, families, workers, and bottom lines." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Frank Knapp, President and CEO, South Carolina Small Business Chamber of Commerce: "A big reason for today's labor shortage crisis is that women with children either can't find quality or affordable childcare. The Build Back Better package will effectively address this issue by both helping low- and moderate-income families with childcare costs and creating free, universal pre-kindergarten programs for 3 and 4 year olds." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Vic Shao, Co-Founder and CEO, AMPLY Power: "Over a hundred years ago, American ingenuity and hard work enabled the rise of transportation fueling infrastructure within 15 years. We are on the cusp of another energy revolution, driven by the same set of dynamics. But for electric vehicles to truly gain mass adoption, the infrastructure required to refuel these vehicles has to be rolled out at scale, like AMPLY's Omega Charge Management System. The Build Back Better Act will help drive implementation of infrastructure investments across the nation while creating good jobs and averting runaway climate change." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Kiran Bhatraju, Founder, Arcadia Power: "When given the opportunity, communities will choose a clean energy future. We see it day in and day out -- but we need investments from the federal government to ensure this opportunity is truly available for all. The Build Back Better Act includes exactly this type of investment and, once passed, will set our country on a better energy path that tackles climate change and reimagines how we power our communities." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Jon Powers, President, CleanCapital: "Bold, generational investments in clean energy and climate solutions like those included in the Build Back Better Act are a crucial part of the path to a net-zero future that will create jobs and put us on track to solve the climate crisis. By spurring innovation that will provide businesses, schools, non-profits, and municipalities with affordable renewable energy, these investments will rapidly speed up the clean energy transition and unleash significant private sector funds. Furthermore, they will provide unparalleled opportunities to create jobs in areas like American manufacturing for veterans seeking a new career. Veterans, like myself, are already a major part of the growth of clean energy and by passing the Build Back Better Act, Congress will make an important down payment to protect our nation's heroes." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Tom Matzzie, Founder and CEO, CleanChoice Energy: "Technology innovations in clean energy hardware, software, and the cloud have created an opportunity to build a rapidly growing clean energy economy that works for everyone. The Build Back Better Act will help companies like ours rapidly expand access to clean energy, provide good-paying jobs, and speed the transition to a clean energy future. Now is the time to pass a bold package like this; Congress must work expeditiously to get this done for the American people, our businesses, and our planet." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Cathy Zoi, CEO, EVgo: "The transition to electric vehicles (EVs) is happening, and the deployment of EV charging infrastructure will create jobs and combat climate change. EVgo commends the Build Back Better Act's focus on both consumer and infrastructure incentives which are needed in tandem to make Electric for All a reality." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Sheldon Kimber, CEO, Intersect Power: "The Build Back Better Act is a huge step forward in meeting President Biden's climate goals. But meeting them is going to take collective will, some social consensus, and leadership from the government and the private sector, and I hope that Congress finds the will to pass this legislation. As the leader of a clean energy company, we are ready to build the infrastructure we need to save the planet but we need the support outlined in the BBBA to do it. As a nation, we've accomplished great things with collective will, and I know we can do it again." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Dan Shugar, Founder and CEO, Nextracker: "The transition to a clean energy economy fueled by solar and other renewables is not optional, it is an imperative. Investments made by the Build Back Better Act will deliver more affordable energy and transformational results to ensure that future generations have reliable power, good paying jobs, and clean air. This means Congress must act now to cement a better future for our country and our planet. We look forward to working with them to make this happen." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Billy Parish, CEO, Mosaic Energy: "Arizonans are living on the frontlines of the climate crisis, and it is destroying our communities, burdening our families, and devastating our economy. By investing in clean energy, we can create thousands of good-paying jobs in our state while protecting our iconic landscapes. The investments outlined in this new framework present a clear opportunity for Arizona, and businesses like mine, to continue leading in the clean energy industry, and I encourage Congress to pass this bill and provide a jolt to our economy at the most critical time." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Scott Moskowitz, Director of Public Affairs, Q CELLS America: "American solar manufacturers are ready to help America pass the Climate Test and ensure our clean energy future is built at home. We're at a pivotal moment to accelerate the growth of the clean energy economy and to re-shore every step of the solar supply chain. With the Build Back Better Act, we can make sure that manufacturing workers in Georgia and around the country lead the world in building the clean energy future. The Build Back Better Act has the potential to be transformative—creating millions of clean energy jobs, reducing energy bills, and transforming how we power the planet for generations to come. [Statement, 10/28/21]
Liz Fairchild, Executive Director, Business Forward: "I applaud the Build Back Better framework released this morning. The hard-earned agreement calls for $1.75 trillion to make historic investments in combating climate change, strengthening our caregiving infrastructure, expanding affordable health care, and creating millions of good jobs — all while cutting costs and taxes for the middle class. Just days before President Biden heads to Glasgow for COP26, this morning's announcement allocates $555 billion to build a 21st century clean energy economy, the country's largest ever investment in climate action. The framework's investments are fully paid for with nearly $2 trillion in revenue-raising proposals, including closing the tax gap and ensuring the country's largest corporations contribute their fair share. I encourage Congress to move forward with the Build Back Better framework — along with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act — as soon as possible." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Jessica Wahl Turner, President, Outdoor Recreation Roundtable: "The Build Back Better plan includes historic investments in fighting climate change that are necessary to grow our nation's economy, bolster the $788 billion outdoor recreation economy and protect the public lands and waters our industry relies on. Funding climate resilient outdoor infrastructure strengthens communities and provides Americans with more opportunities to get outside and reap all the benefits of spending time in nature. Additionally, the Creation of the Civilian Climate Corps included in the Build Back Better plan will support diverse young people working on needed conservation and recreation projects and serve as a critical pipeline for 21st century jobs in the outdoor recreation economy, all while promoting conservation and making outdoor spaces more climate resilient. Other programs that will support the needs of recreation access and infrastructure being impacted by climate change:
• $1.25B to carry out projects for the protection and resiliency of public lands and resources• $750M to carry out ecosystem and habitat restoration projects on public lands and waters• $500M for wildfire management• $400M for deferred maintenance and housing on NPS• $100M for urban parks plus $10m to administer those funds• $1.25B for the Forest Legacy Program• $6B for restoring habitat and bolstering coastal resistance• Almost $2B for salmon habitat restoration, science assessments and hatcheries• Funding supporting 300,000 members of Civilian Conservation Corps" [Statement, 10/29/21]
  