
    New Hampshire State Representative Renny Cushing and Executive Council Candidate Mindi Messmer to serve as state co-chairs
MANCHESTER, N.H. – Following a successful college tour which included rallies on the campuses of Plymouth State University, New England College, Dartmouth College, and the University of New Hampshire, Bernie 2020 announced its co-chairs today for the New Hampshire campaign.
State Representative Renny Cushing, a longtime anti-death penalty activist and dedicated progressive champion in the state legislature, will serve as campaign co-chair alongside former State Representative Mindi Messmer. As a State Representative and advocate, Messmer has successfully pushed through safer protections on drinking water and the environment to prevent cancer and chronic disease in New Hampshire. Representative Cushing's bill abolishing the death penalty in New Hampshire was passed and signed into law earlier this year.
"Bernie is honest, consistent, and authentic. He has led the fight to improve wages for working people, end the corrupting influence of big money in politics, and take bold action to stop climate change. As a longtime human rights activist, I am also proud to endorse a candidate who has been a lifelong opponent of capital punishment.
In order to ensure the current occupant of the White House is a one-term president, we need a candidate who is brave, bold, and above all else, a fighter. Bernie is that candidate and I am proud to endorse him for president and serve as his campaign co-chair in New Hampshire," Rep. Cushing said.
Messmer, former state representative, environmental scientist and justice activist, and current candidate for Executive Council, said this of her endorsement and role as co-chair:
"Bernie Sanders has the most comprehensive plans to address climate change and environmental justice. He has a record of organizing to create change. On January 21, 2021, we will only have nine years to rein in fossil fuel carbon emissions. We need a President who will treat climate change as the existential threat and crisis that it is. That President is Bernie Sanders."
"This campaign is both living our values and fighting for a better future," said Shannon Jackson, NH State Director. "As we kick our campaign into high gear, we are honored to have Reps. Cushing and Messmer join us as co-chairs. With their leadership, and the support of our steering committee, endorsers, and volunteers, I am confident we are in a strong position to win in New Hampshire on February 11th."
  