
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals and appoint three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Frederick William Hatfield, of California, to be Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of a five-year term expiring April 13, 2008. Mr. Hatfield currently serves as Chief of Staff for Senator John Breaux. He previously served as Deputy Commissioner General of the U.S. Pavilion at the World Fair in Lisbon, Portugal. Prior to this position, Mr. Hatfield served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Community Relations at ETC, Inc., an education technology company. He earned his bachelor's degree from California State University.
The President intends to nominate Harold Damelin, of Virginia, to be Inspector General of the Department of the Treasury. Mr. Damelin currently serves as Inspector General for the Small Business Administration. He previously served as a Partner at the law firm of Powers, Pyles, Sutter, and Verville, in Washington, DC. Earlier in his career, Mr. Damelin served as Chief Counsel and Staff Director for the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations. He earned his bachelor's degree and J.D. from Boston College.
The President intends to nominate Edward L. Flippen, of Virginia, to be Inspector General of the Corporation for National and Community Service. Mr. Flippen currently serves as a Partner with McGuireWoods, LLP in Richmond, Virginia. He previously served as a Partner with Mays & Valentine, LLP. Prior to these positions, Mr. Flippen served as Deputy General Counsel for the Virginia State Corporation Commission. He earned his bachelor's degree from the Virginia Commonwealth University and his master's degree and J.D. from the College of William and Mary.
The President intends to nominate Brian David Miller, of Virginia, to be Inspector General of the General Services Administration. Mr. Miller currently serves the Department of Justice as Counsel to the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. In addition, he also serves as Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. Mr. Miller previously served the Department of Justice as Senior Counsel to the Deputy Attorney General and as Senior Attorney Advisor for the Office of Policy Development. He earned his bachelor's degree from Temple University, his master's degree from Westminster Theological Seminary and his J.D. from the University of Texas.
The President intends to appoint General Richard B. Myers, USAF, of Virginia, to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross, for a three-year term.
The President intends to nominate Jorge A. Plasencia, of Florida, to be a Member of the Advisory Board for Cuba Broadcasting, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring October 27, 2006.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Governors of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service:
Carolyn L. Gallagher, of Texas, for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring December 8, 2005
Louis J. Giuliano, of New York, for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring December 8, 2009
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Museum and Library Services Board, for a five-year term expiring December 6, 2009:
A. Wilson Greene of Virginia (Museum)
Katina P. Strauch of South Carolina (Library)
  