
    Pool Reports by Daniel Strauss, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




October 28, 202113:22

VP Supplemental Pool report #1 
Hello
I'll be pooling today's event with the vice president and mayors on the infrastructure deal and BBB agenda. Ahead of the event, the White House passes along the following "On Background from a White House Official":
On Background from a White House Official
With President Biden announcing his Build Back Better Framework, Vice President Kamala Harris will host a meeting today with a group of mayors to discuss how the Administration's agenda will benefit communities across the country. During the meeting - which is virtual – the Vice President will discuss how the Build Back Better Framework and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal will lower costs for families, cut taxes for parents, make historic investments in our Nation's infrastructure and public transit, and create good-paying jobs across the country. The group of mayors will share their thoughts on the how these investments would make a difference for their cities.
President Biden and Vice President Harris both began their careers as local elected officials, and the Biden-Harris Administration has worked with Democratic and Republican Mayors to help craft the Build Back Better Agenda.
The meeting will take place at 2:15pm EDT today. Participants include:

Vice President Kamala Harris
Mayor Bryan Barnett (R-Rochester Hills, MI)
Mayor Jenny Durkan (D-Seattle, WA)
Mayor Robert Garcia (D-Long Beach, CA)
Mayor Sylvester Turner (D-Houston, TX)
Mayor Tishaura Jones (D-St. Louis, MO)

The Vice President's Leadership Building Back Better for Working Families 
Working with President Biden, the Vice President is helping lead the Administration's effort to address challenges facing families through the Build Back Better Agenda. She continues with Members of Congress, meet with families, and participate in public events including:

Addressing the Climate Crisis - Lake Mead visit in Nevada

Vice President Harris visited Lake Mead in Nevada with Reps. Susie Lee, Steven Horsford, and Dina Titus, where she participated in a tour, received a briefing, and delivered remarks making the case for climate action in the Build Back Better Agenda through climate resilience, reducing emissions, creating jobs, and benefiting families for future generations.


Childcare Center Visit in New Jersey – to Help Lower Childcare Costs

The Vice President traveled to Little Falls New Jersey and participated in a roundtable conversation with Rep. Mikie Sherrill at Ben Samuels Children's Center at Montclair State University, where she focused on the importance of federal investment in childcare through the Build Back Better Agenda.


"Sandwich Generation" Kitchen Table Conversation

The Vice President visited the home of Jamie Smith, a member of the "sandwich generation," who cares for her children and parents – to discuss how the Build Back Better Agenda will support caregivers like Jamie.


CEOs: Investments in Childcare

The Vice President convened business leaders to make the case for how childcare investments in the Build Back Better Agenda will help companies grow. She met with the President of Microsoft, the CEO of Chobani, and the CEO of Gap, among other corporate leaders.






October 28, 202114:14

VP Supplemental Pool report #2
Pool was led into the South Court Auditorium room where Vice President Harris will host the mayors. The event is still scheduled to start at 2:15 EDT.
The event will be livestreamed at the White House's livestream page here so I'll spare you my fast transcription.



October 28, 202114:46

VP Supplemental Pool report #3 
This event started at 2:32 ET with the vice president live and Mayors Durkan (Seatt)e, Garcia (Long Beach, CA), Turner (Houston), Barnett (Rochester Hills, MI) and Jones (St. Louis) participating virtually.
Again, the remarks are being streamed live here.



October 28, 202114:44

VP Supplemental Pool report #4 
At 2:38 pm pool and other press were escorted out just as the discussion was getting underway. There was no opportunity to ask a question.




  