
    Mitt Romney today announced former Maryland Governor Bob Ehrlich as Chairman of his Maryland campaign and RNC National Committeeman Louis Pope as Co-Chair.
"I am proud to have the support of Bob Ehrlich," said Mitt Romney. "As Governor of Maryland, he oversaw a drop in unemployment, balanced the budget, and said 'no' to tax increases. He understands that President Obama's over-spending has failed to get voters in Maryland and across the country back to work. I am glad to have Bob's help in my efforts to put our economy on the path to recovery."
"After studying all the candidates, it is clear that Republicans' best chance for beating President Obama next November is Mitt Romney," said former Governor Bob Ehrlich. "Mitt Romney is the only candidate with the necessary experience to turn around our failing economy. He has laid out a comprehensive economic plan that will restart the economy beginning day one. Republicans can't afford to let President Obama have four more years to spend trillions of dollars, burden small businesses, and fail to create jobs."
"Maryland voters are tired of the failures and excuses from this administration," said National Committeeman Louis Pope. "They want a president who will make job creation his number one priority. Mitt Romney has worked in the private sector for 25 years and knows how jobs are created. He is the only candidate who will be able to fix the fiscal and economic mess that the next president will inherit."
Background On Maryland Co-Chairs:

Bob Ehrlich served as Governor of Maryland from 2003 to 2007. Previously, he represented Maryland's 2nd Congressional District in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1995 to 2003. He also practiced law and served in the House of Delegates.


Louis Pope serves as Republican National Committeeman for Maryland. In 2006, Pope was selected by President George W. Bush to serve on the Small Business Administration's National Advisory Council. He is the President and Owner of Century 21 Trademark Realty, Inc, based in Montgomery and Prince Georges County.

Members Of Mitt Romney's Maryland Steering Committee:

Former Maryland Republican Party First Vice Chair Chris Cavey
Former Maryland Republican Party First Vice Chair Chuck Gast
Former Maryland Republican Party Chairman Audrey Scott
Howard County Republican Party Chairman Loretta Shields
Former Howard County Republican Party Chairman Brian Harlin

  