
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Hartford, CT. Following his arrival at Bradley International Airport, he greeted a group of young people helping to combat teenage smoking.
In the evening, the President traveled to Austin, TX.
October 16
In the morning, the President traveled to Dallas, TX, and in the evening, he traveled to Los Angeles, CA.
The President announced his intention to appoint Natalie Cohen to be a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The White House announced that the President will meet at the White House with President Soeharto of Indonesia on October 27.
The White House announced that the President congratulated Armstrong World Industries' Building Products Operation and Corning Telecommunications Products Division as recipients of the 1995 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award.
October 17
In the morning, the President traveled to San Antonio, TX, and in the evening, he traveled to Houston, TX. Later in the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
October 18
In the evening, the President traveled to Baltimore, MD, where he attended a fundraising dinner at a private residence. He then returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.
The White House announced that the President and President Jacques Chirac of France have agreed to reschedule President Chirac's November 3d state visit at the White House for February 1, 1996.
October 19
In the morning, the President had a working visit with President Thomas Klestil of Austria.
In the evening, the President attended the Africare reception at the Washington Hilton Hotel.
The President announced his intention to renominate Lottie L. Shackelford to be the small business designate on the Overseas Private Investment Corporation Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Vigdor L. Teplitz to the Scientific and Policy Advisory Committee of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
October 20
In the morning, the President traveled to Columbus, OH, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Des Moines, IA.
In the evening, the President attended the Iowa Jefferson-Jackson Dinner at the Veterans Memorial Auditorium.
  