
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 13
The President met at the White House with David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
In response to inquiries on the October 12 House of Representatives gasoline decontrol vote, the White House announced that it has been the President's policy since the beginning of the administration that gasoline ultimately should be decontrolled. The President made a decision earlier this year based upon an assessment of general gasoline and economic conditions that decontrol would not be appropriate at this time. the administration does not support a congressional amendment mandating decontrol of gasoline. The President now has all the authority he needs to take this step when it is appropriate after a review of prevailing economic factors.
October 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison.
October 17
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Patricia R. Harris, Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Moon Landrieu, Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of Transportation Neil Goldschmidt, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, and Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, to discuss domestic policies;
—Mr. Moore;
—members of the Pay Advisory Committee;
—Representative and Mrs. James C. Corman of California and Adam Corman; Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale.
The President attended a reception for members of the National Minority Purchasing Council, held in the East Room at the White House.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 15th annual report on the Status of the National Wilderness Preservation System and the 1978 report of the National Cancer Advisory Board.
In the evening, the President attended the seventh and final game of the 1979 World Series at Memorial Stadium in Baltimore, Md. At the conclusion of the game be met with the Pittsburgh Pirates and the Baltimore Orioles teams and then returned to the White House.
October 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President.
The President attended a reception for members of the Alliance to Save Energy, held in the East Room at the White House.
The White House announced that Prime Minister and Mrs. John M. Lynch of Ireland will make an official visit to the United States November 7 - 15 at the invitation of President Carter. The President and the Prime Minister will hold talks on November 8.
The White House announced that Les Francis, deputy to the Chief of Staff, will be leaving the White House to join the Carter/Mondale Presidential Committee. He will assume the post of campaign staff director, reporting directly to national campaign manager the Kraft, on October 22.
The White House announced the following appointments to the staff of Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President: Joseph Onek and Michael H. Cardozo, Deputy Counsels to the President; Douglas Huron, Senior Associate Counsel to the President; and Patrick V. Apodaca and Barbara E. Bergman, Associate Counsels to the President.
October 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
-Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Mr. Jordan, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Donovan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Dr. Ruben F. Mettler, outgoing chairman of the National Alliance of Businessmen and chairman and chief executive officer of TRW, Inc., John H. Filer, incoming chairman of the NAB and chairman of AETNA Life and Casualty Co., and Assistant Secretary of Labor for Employment and Training Ernest G. Green;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of the United Kingdom will make an official visit to the United States on December 17 and 18, at the invitation of President Carter. The President and the Prime Minister will hold talks on December 17.
The President announced the designation of Norton J. Come as Acting General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board, effective tomorrow. He replaces John J. Irving, who has resigned effective today. Come, 59, has been with the NLRB since 1948. He has served as Deputy Associate General Counsel since 1963.
  