
    [Music: Lee Greenwood, "God Bless the U.S.A."]
Crowd. [chanting] USA! USA! USA! USA!
The President. Well, I just want to thank the people of Louisiana you have been so great. Right from the beginning. [applause] Right from the beginning and I'm thrilled to be back with thousands of loyal rock-ribbed, American Patriots. That's what you are, that's what we are. [applause] You work hard, you pay your taxes, you raise your children, you follow our laws, you respect our police, you defend our values, and you stand strong for God, family and country. [cheers and applause]
Tomorrow you will head to the polls and you will vote to replace a liberal Democrat who has sold you out, John Bel Edwards with a great new Republican governor. Now this Saturday, you also have a not a bad football game coming up. Right? Not a bad game. I guess, they're both unbeaten. I was watching a little bit of a clip today. Your quarterback does not look too bad, does he, huh? Boom, boom, boom. But it's a great game LSU and Florida. So, here's what you do. So important--I want you to enjoy the game, but I don't really want you to enjoy the game if you don't vote first. You know why? Because you'll be sitting there watching some incredible football and you feel guilty, it will ruin your entire afternoon. So, go out and vote and then go and enjoy the game the way it should be enjoyed. [applause]
As you've seen under Republican leadership, America is stronger than ever before and that's what's happened. We've created 6 million new jobs and opened 10,000 new factories since my election. The United States has the hottest economy on earth. You know, these prime ministers and presidents and kings and queens and I'd hate to say it, sometimes dictators, but we take them as they come. Right? We take them as they come, but they always start off, "Sir, congratulations on the great job you've done with the economy." [applause] Got the hottest numbers, got the hottest economy in the world. We've got the No. 1 economy anywhere in the world and, had our opponent gotten elected you would right now be the No. 2 economy to China, and we are now so far ahead. It will never happen if smart people are standing here. [applause]
We've ended the war on American energy and with your help, right here in Louisiana, the United States is now the No. 1 producer of oil and natural gas anywhere on the planet. [applause] And how about these Democrats? They want to get rid of oil. [booing] They want to get rid of natural gas. They want to go to wind. "Hell, darling, I just can't watch the show tonight. The wind, it just stopped blowing. I can't watch LSU and Florida, there's no wind today. I'm angry, I'm really angry at John Bel Edwards. He has not done the job."
We are securing our borders, taking care of our great veterans and restoring the unrivaled might of the US military like never before. [cheers and applause] And by the way, and we're going to introduce some, but you have two great Senators here tonight. You have great Congressman. We approved something called, Veterans Choice. The veterans now, can go see a doctor outside of the V.A. if they have to wait for two weeks or three weeks or three days, they can go and they can see a doctor. We pay the bill, they get better. People are waiting for four, five, six, seven weeks. So, our veterans, we're taking care of our veterans. Do you notice that with the veterans? Because a lot of veterans here. But you notice? It used to be all the time, every time. Oh, there's a veteran. Where's the veteran? Right there? How are you sir? He looks like a veteran too. Not going to mess with him. Great. Thank you very much. But you notice? We don't see the bad stories about the veterans. Now, the fake news will go out all over the United States. [booing] They'll look. They'll look–NBC is one of the worst in the world. They'll look–they'll look for a veteran. They're going to find a veteran that's not 100% happy and they're going to make him a star. But you notice? For a year and a half, we've been in great shape, right? They don't talk about the veterans. [booing]
Get them out. [booing] Wow. [booing] You know what? Your police work fast. They work fast. [cheers and applause] They work fast. They don't mess around in Louisiana, do they? They're out. That was beautiful. I love to see it. Our police are great, law enforcement great. Doing an incredible job.
But all of our nation's gains are put at risk by a rage filled Democrat Party that has gone completely insane. For nearly three years, Democrats have waged a non-stop battle to overturn your vote, overrule your voice, override your values and overthrow the results of the most spectacular election in the history of our country 2016. [applause] But your Senators and your Congressman and frankly, the real Senators and the real Congressmen and women of this country, they're not standing for the good people of Louisiana. Will never ever stand for it. It's a hoax, it's a hoax.
The Democrats are fighting to restore the wretched political class that threw open our nation's borders, shipped away our jobs, sacrificed our wealth, surrendered our sovereignty, flooded our cities with drugs and crime and bogged us down in one foreign war after another. The endless wars have to stop. Have to stop. [applause] We're directly taking on the unholy alliance of corrupt Democrat politicians, deep state bureaucrats and the fake news media. There they are right there. [booing] You know, it's really funny, I see all those red lights on. That means, you're live. Right? As soon as I start talking about the fake news, I see those lights go off so fast, but then they come back on. And you know why they come back on because last night, by far, all over the cable, all over the place, the highest rated show was what we did in Minnesota, a state that we're going to win. [applause] That's why they come back on because they had no choice. They may hate Trump, but they want to get those ratings. Hey, what's going to happen in 12, maybe 16 years? When I'm no longer President. See, I'm just driving up here. Their ratings are going to tank. I actually think they're going to endorse me. Because if they don't, can you imagine having Pocahontas as your president? [booing] Now, the real Pocahontas we wouldn't have minded, but the fake Pocahontas you can't have. Or how about sleepy Joe? [booing]
His son, who knows nothing about energy–unlike the people in this room. [applause] He flies into the Ukraine. He flies into Ukraine, he walks out with $168,000 a month, $3 million, never–he doesn't know what a gasoline tank looks like. And they're paying him hundreds of thousands a month then he flies into China and he takes out $1.5 billion. I got to tell you, you know, I just made a great China deal today for energy, for the farmers—[applause]—for the banks, for so many. You know, technology. One of the greats. Phase 1, it's a big phase. In fact, the biggest problem, it'll be 40 to 50 billion dollars in farm purchases. I don't think our farmers can produce that much. I said, "That's okay." You know, my people said, "Sir, could we make it 20?" I said, "No, make it 50." Our farmers will buy more land and they'll buy bigger tractors. Right? [cheers and applause] Now, they actually said, "I want my farmers, I love my farmers. I want them to come back to be." "Sir, we can't produce this too much, it's too much sir. It's too much. We can't produce that much wheat and corn and all the stuff." Because I want to tell you, I got China to order a lot. [applause] And it's true, it's not true. No, it's true. So, China in their record year, of course they'll catch it within you know, $2, it was $2 off. He gets a Pinocchio. Although Schiff got four Pinocchio's for making up what I said on the phone call. [booing] Shifty Schiff. But their biggest year was $16 billion in aggregate. That's a lot. Sixteen billion, that's a lot of corn, right? Sixteen billion was their biggest year. They're going to buy not 16, not 20, not 30, not 40. They're going to buy between 40 and $50 billion worth of agriculture products. [applause]
And my people said to me, "Sir, they can't do it. They cannot produce that much." I said, "You know what?" No, it's true my people wanted to stop at 20. I said, "I'm not stopping at 20." I want them to come back and say, "Sir, we can't do it." Because I love my farmers. But they're going to be out there busy. They'll be going–they'll be go–they're going to be more tractors sold and they're going to be bigger and better and more powerful. And they're going to be made by American companies like John Deere and Case, and Caterpillar. [applause]
So, for your Senators and your Congressmen that are here, that was one hell of a deal. This is phase one, phase one, you got to see these, and they are happy to do it. They are happy to do it. We had a great relationship. But I tell you, so let me get back to Biden. Right? Remember? Where's Hunter? You know, last night I said, "Where's Hunter?" It became like the hottest thing in the whole country. I just said, "By the way, where's Hunter?" He walked out of China. So, he walks out with $1.5 billion, and I said, "You know, those aren't the same guys that I've been dealing with from China for the last year and a half." Those guys don't give you a 1.5 billion and you know nothing. That's not the same Chinese people, I want to meet those people. Instead of 50 billion, it would be $500 billion worth of corn. So, it's a crooked deal and the fake news is always covering up for Joe Biden. Right? [booing] The fake news, they go, "One of the claim is totally unsubstantiated." Every single newscast. With me, any claim is okay. With them, "Well, the claim is totally unsubstantiated." And I say, but it's not unsubstantiated. He took out a fortune out of Ukraine, knew nothing. Took out a fortune out of China. How tough is China? I called one of the biggest people on Wall Street, friend of mine, really big powerful guy–does this stuff. I said, "Let me ask you just one question. What are the chances of doing that?" He said, "Zero." I said, "So you're the biggest on Wall Street, Steve. Steve, you're the biggest. What are the chances you could do that?" He said, "Even the big ones can't do that." But for a guy to walk in off the street with no experience, a bad track record just got thrown out of the Navy and he walks away with 1.5 billion. And then these people, these crooked people back there say, "This is totally unsubstantiated." [booing]
Can you imagine John Kennedy, Bill? Can you imagine if Don Junior or if Eric Trump or if our beautiful Ivanka? She works so hard. [cheers and applause] Can you imagine? If they walked out with one and a half billion dollars, they wouldn't be saying totally unsubstantiated. They'd be saying, "Where's the nearest cell? This is a horrible thing." So, it's a disgrace what's going on. It's a whole big fat disgrace and it's very unfair to Republicans. But you know what? We're here and they're not. Right? [cheers and applause]
The Democrats and the media, they're partners, they're partners, okay? You ever see in the–the word manufacture, it's never been used before for this. We're talking about the southern border and they're talking about in a manufactured crisis. They said it was not a crisis that it was manufactured. When you had caravans, we stopped it and the wall is being built like you've never seen before. [applause] Been there. But remember, a few months ago, in a manufactured crisis, ABC, NBC. In a manufactured crisis, ABC again, manufactured, CNN crooked as hell, in a manufactured crisis. Manufactured. Then you go to CBS, ladies and gentlemen, in a manufactured cri–there's a word that was never used and yet every single network used it because you know what? It's collusion, it's collusion. [applause] That's the real collusion. With us, there was no collusion, that's the real collusion right there. They colluded and they conspired to sabotage our incredible movement and they wanted to sieve the American voter. And they want to hurt the American voter. And we had an election in the history of our country. There's never been a greater victory than the victory we had in 2016 and we're going to have a bigger one in 2020. [applause]
They've been trying to stop us for more than three years with a lot of crap. You know, the first time I heard about Russia, they said, "Sir, do you know anything about Russia?" "No." "Have you colluded with Russia?" And I laughed, I thought they were kidding. And weeks would go by and I'd hear somebody else come up, "Sir, do you know any about Russia?" "No. Not–no, I know where it is. I don't deal with it." I sold a house to a guy about 12 years ago. He was from Russia, that's a long time ago. No, I don't know. Then they come up again, "Sir, this Russia keeps coming up. Do you know anything about it?" This is the witch hunt. This is the insurance policy for, you know, this–this was the insurance policy. Remember from the two lovers? If she doesn't win, we've got an insurance policy. These people are corrupt. These people are disgusting, the two lovers. And they put it on the FBI server so their spouses wouldn't find out. Because they didn't want to put it on their private. That didn't work out too well for Peter Strzok and Lisa Page, did it? "Lisa, I love you. I love you, Lisa. I love you, Lisa. I love you so much I can't even see straightly. Lisa, she's going to win 100 million to nothing. But just in case, Lisa, my darling, I love you, God. Oh. Just in case she doesn't win, we got an insurance policy." Essentially saying, we're going to take him out. These are corrupt people, folks. And then she said, "Peter, I love you, I love you so much. You're so great, Peter." Uh–I don't think she loves him too much anymore. Do you think? I don't think she loves him. I hear the word, it's not too good. The word is she's not in love anymore. We've been living through this so-called insurance policy because they know, we're putting a stop to their pillaging and they're plundering, and they're hoaxes. [applause]
The radical Democrats policies are crazy, their politicians are corrupt, their candidates are terrible, and they know they can't win an election day. So, they're pursuing an illegal, invalid and unconstitutional, bullshit impeachment. [cheers and applause]
Crowd. [chanting] USA! USA! USA! USA!
The President. They're scammers and con artists, perpetrating, hoaxes and witch hunts. A man like Greg Jarrett, great guy. He wrote a book, and the book tells you the whole story. Best seller book. Greg Jarrett, great guy, so many. Bongino, I tell you, so many. He's not a lawyer, but he–he's better than the lawyers. He's called street smart. But these are great–so many great people. John Solomon should get the Pulitzer Prize. How about these fraudulent writers at The New York Times? They get Pulitzer Prize and they got it all wrong. They have to give back their Pulitzer Prize. But that's a fix also, isn't it, huh? "I've just won the Pulitzer Prize for talking about Trump and Russia," but they were all wrong now. Now, the people that were right, like Sean Hannity, and Rush Limbaugh—[applause]—Laura Ingraham and Tucker Carlson, Judge Jeanine and Watters, my Watters. And frankly, the best show by far in the morning is Fox and Friends. [applause] Also got the best rating. And Lou Dobbs, how about Lou Dobbs? And Varney, he's great. You know, Varney's great, and Maria Bartiromo. And you know what? And–and then many others, many others, many others. But they get it right. But why is it, John Solomon? Why are these people getting the real Pulitzer Prize? Because they were right, they called it right. The Times, The Washington Post, they're dishonest, horrible. I think very, very bad for our country publications. It's a phony deal. So, their writers get Pulitzer Prizes for getting it wrong and the great writers that really got it. And I don't know them, I never even met some of these people, but the ones that really got it right, they go home empty handed–doesn't work that way. And the people see it, you know, the people see it. So, some of the names that I mentioned, all of the names that I mentioned and plenty that I didn't, I'll tell you, thank God we have them on our side. [applause] And in its own way thank God, that we have a thing called social media because we get the word out. [applause] Like nobody has ever gotten the word out before, but it's called the witch hunt. The story of the greatest mass delusion in American political history, that's what it is. This is one of the great con jobs ever. We must never let it happen to another President. This should never be allowed to happen again. [applause]
When Schiff goes out and speaks before Congress, they never thought I was going to release the transcript of my call, oh. And this whistle blower, what's going on with the IG? How come the IG brings a whistle blower forward? And the whistle blower who works now for Biden, did you hear this one? Came out yesterday. But the whistle blower comes out with a totally phony report on my phone call, but they never thought I'd release it. So, they were gonna be okay. Eight times, quid pro quo except it was no time. And if you listen to what they said, it sounded horrible. That's why I had to release it. I called up Ukraine and said, "Do you mind?" I had one of my people, make a call. Do you mind if we release it? They said, "What the hell is that all about?" And by the way, the President of Ukraine yesterday came out and he said, "He did nothing wrong. What are you talking about?" I think they look at our country, they think we're all crazy. They think we're crazy. But he said really nice, the new President, good guy and he got elected on an anti-corruption platform because Ukraine is. You know, Ukraine is known as a, unfortunately, very corrupt place, but they'll straighten it out. But he came out yesterday and he said so strongly, and the fake news hardly puts him on. Hardly puts him on. And he said it before, he said it at the United Nations and his foreign minister said it so strongly. He said, "There was nothing wrong with that call. There was nothing wrong." They don't even know what the hell we're talking about. But nobody thought I'd release the call. Probably nobody thought we had a transcript. So, when I heard the viciousness–but here's the worst of all, worse than the whistleblower. Now the whistleblower, what's this isn't a whistle–why are we protecting a person that tells you things that weren't true? But listen to this, so, shifty Schiff. [booing] Shifty. Little Ada–little Adam Schiff. Adam, I've had you up to here. I've had you up. Little Adam Schiff. He comes out and he made up my conversation. And I was watching, fortunately, because a lot of people sort of think like, "Oh, I guess that's what he said." I said, "I never said that." And then when Pelosi, nervous, nervous Nancy. [booing] Nervous Nancy. Nervous Nancy. [applause]
Nervous Nancy. I used to think she loved the country; she hates the country because she wouldn't be doing this to the country if she did. She hates the country; Nancy Pelosi hates the United States of America because she wouldn't be doing this. And I'm telling you, foreign nations, foreign people looking at us. They honestly think we're nuts. And then you have Presidents and saying nothing was wrong. The President of the country. That's in question. But Nancy Pelosi said, "Well, that's what he said. Isn't it?" But she was angry as hell when she got to read the transcript. Because she said, "Wait a minute, that's not what I was told." But she was stuck, she was stuck. But think of a guy, who makes up a phone call, makes up my words, viciously says, eight quid pro quos. In other words, you got to do this and we're not going to do that. And there were none. There were none. They couldn't believe it when I released that call. I would have loved to have seen their faces. And then he goes before the United States Congress and before the American public and he makes up the story of what I said. Made it horrible and vicious, not even close. It's not like, "Gee, he missed a couple of words." He missed every word, he missed every. He made it up, it was fiction. It's unbelievable. And honestly, I don't know Congressman, but are you immune from something like that? That should be a crime. That should be a crime. [applause]
Anyway, that's why tomorrow I need you to send the radical Democrat establishment a loud and clear message. You are going to fire your Democrat governor who has done a lousy job and sent a great Republican to the governor's mansion. [applause] When John Bel Edwards ran for office, he made your state a sacred promise that he would not raise your taxes. Then he got elected and broke that promise by ramming through the largest tax hike in your state's history, John Bel Edwards. [booing]
And you know, because the state obviously likes me, I think I won like by. A lot. [applause] I don't even know why the hell you like a guy that lives on Fifth Avenue, but I like you too. But I used to go to construction sites, my father would be putting up houses or building and I'd go and work with the workers. And that's when I realized these are the people I love. These are the people. These are the real people. I know them all. I know the good ones, I know the bad ones, I like those workers.
But John Bel Edwards lied to the people of Louisiana while every other state is making massive job gains, and you don't even know this. Edwards' terrible policies are killing jobs across your State. Edwards is now trying to destroy Louisiana's energy sector, you know that. Right? With threats and lawsuits inspired by the radical left wing, Washington activists and Democrats. What he's doing? Right? John Bel Edwards, not good. Goes around saying, "I like Trump very much. He's very good." But behind my back, he doesn't like me. Friend of mine knows him well, he said, "Behind your back, he's not so good." John Bel Edwards was a super delegate for crooked Hillary Clinton [booing] and he supported–by the way, it looks like Bernie lost his chance. Right? Bernie was hitting a baseball today to show how strong he was. There just wasn't a lot of bat head speed. Bernie, get better for–but Bernie I just suck–I get better work, get better fast. It's only time I've ever said anything good about him. But–but boy did they take advantage of him four years ago and he let them do it. You can't do that. You can't let people take advantage. He figured I'll wait four years, it's a little bit tough. But it looks like, you know when Bernie gets out, which seems inevitable. When Bernie gets out, it looks like those will go to your radical leftist Elizabeth Warren. Right? [booing] And that unfortunately, will be the end of sleepy Joe because I would really, probably, most like to run again–I don't know, it's sort of any–I don't care. Whoever it is, just put them out there. Let's get this thing going. [applause]
But John Bel Edwards supported far left candidates like Stacey Abrams. [booing] Our friend, Brian Kemp, he did a number on Stacey Abrams. She's still saying, "What happened? What happened?" She had Oprah.
You know, Oprah used to be a very good friend of mine. She used to go to Mar-a-Lago, place I have in Palm Beach. She loved Mar-a-Lago; she loved the key lime pie. She did. No, so do I. She loved the key lime pie, but she used to go. She loved me until I decide to run for office. But she went to Georgia and she campaigned for Stacey. And Obama went and Michelle Obama went—[booing]—and they campaigned. And all Brian Kemp had was Donald Trump. [applause] And we had a rally at the airport and there were 55,000 people at that rally. That was the day before, maybe two days before the election. I said Brian, "Congratulations. You're going to win; you're going to win." And he won by two and a half points, which was amazing. Every star, everybody went down there for Stacey Abrams.
Louisiana cannot take four more years of a liberal Democrat governor raising your taxes, killing your jobs, attacking your industries and taking money from open borders extremists. How about these people? They want open borders. Let everybody come in, let them all come in. Tomorrow, you've got a vote John Bel Edwards out. [applause] And the way you do that is before the game you got to get going. You got to just leave it an hour early, maybe even a half an hour. Ten minutes, I don't care. Be late for the game I couldn't care less. But you got to vote before the game. And what it is? Just so you understand, it's a runoff. So, if he doesn't get 50% then one of our two great candidates will win, that. And it'll be John Bel Edwards against one of our two great guy and they're both great people. They're great. Ralph Abraham and Eddie Rispone. [applause]
Ralph Abraham and Eddie are both pro-jobs, pro-worker, pro-family, pro-life and they're pro-Louisiana energy if that's okay. You know, I was here a couple of months ago and they opened the biggest LNG plant I have ever seen in my life. Right? Were you there? And they've been trying to get this thing approved for years and years and years and they couldn't. And then President Trump came along, and I got those permits so fast for them. [applause]
These big energy executives were sitting back, and they couldn't get it approved. Nothing they could do, wouldn't get it approved. Your governor was lousy, they were all lousy. Nobody could help. That thing was so dead, and I came along, and I got it approved and then the consultants probably called up these big energy executives, "Sir, we were able to get it approved for you." I never even saw these people, but I know it was a good thing. And they probably got millions in consulting fees. I'd rather give it to you people or rather give it to something, charity, but they came along. I could just see nobody knows consultants better than me. They make the environmental rules tough, so you have to pay them a lot of money to skirt your way through, but it takes years and years and millions and millions. So, I got that plant approved and I came down two months ago, right? Two and a half months ago and cut a ribbon. I'd never seen anything so big and now they're going to double it up, I understand. And they're building an even bigger one in another location of Louisiana. [applause] Right?
They will protect your Second Amendment, our two guys and John Bel won't. John Bel Edwards, when it gets close and they start calling from Washington and Schumer and Pelosi call, "We want you to get rid of the Second Amendment." He's 100% going to drop the Second Amendment. You're not going to have the rights that you have or anywhere close. John Bel Edwards will not protect your Second Amendment. Our guys support your police, they defend the great workers and families of this state. If you want a governor who will fight for your values, get out tomorrow and cast your ballot for Eddie or Ralph. It's very important. Eddie and Ralph where are you? Eddie and Ralph, where are you? Come up, come up here. [cheers and applause]
You know what? So, here's the problem, we're on live television all over the place. They don't like this because they go up, they say, "Put Trump back on, he gets better ratings." So, let me tell you, these guys, are the greatest. Here's the thing, I'm going to have them each, say like a quick minute or two, but you're not allowed to hit your Republican opponent. You're only allowed to hit John Bel Edwards because he deserves to be. Go ahead. Go ahead, Ralph. Go ahead.
Ralph Abraham. Is this incredible? Is this incredible? Yes. We need someone to do for Louisiana, what President Trump has done for the USA. [cheers and applause] We need a conservative, we need a businessman, we need someone who's not beholden to special interests. We need someone that will fight for Louisiana. That's why I'm in this race, folks. Let's go get it. Let's fire John Bel Edwards and let's thank our President for coming down here to help us. [cheers and applause]
Eddie Rispone. I just want to thank the President for coming to Louisiana and making Louisiana we need him to make Louisiana great again and myself. Mr. President, we thank you. Thank you so much for taking care of our veterans, for rebuilding our military and for protecting our southern border. [applause] And Mr. President, I dropped a resolution to expel Nancy Pelosi from the House of Representatives. Go America! Go Louisiana! [applause]
The President. Thank you, fellas very much, appreciated. Okay, you got to do it tomorrow, let's go get a runoff and one of these two guys are fantastic. Let's vote tomorrow for the entire Republican ticket, just vote. We're also delighted to be joined by two really good friends of mine. These are warriors, these are warriors. Different types of people, but equally, I mean, they fight for you and they love this state, and they love this country. One, hears a strange name when I first heard. He called me up, "Sir," they said, "there's a man named John Kennedy on the phone." I said, "Who?" "He's running for the Senate in a state that likes you a lot." I said, "Where?" "Louisiana." [cheers and applause] And I said, "Let me check it out." And it was true, there was a man named John Kennedy, a very successful guy, a brilliant guy. You're not going to know what this means because I'm a big, like student, I like academics, believe it or not. People don't know. My uncle was a professor for 35 years or something at M.I.T. I like that stuff. He went to Oxford. Oxford's like, as good as it gets. And he was a great student at Oxford, you know he puts on that country stuff all the time, but I want to tell you. And we know the country smarter than the other guys anyway. But–so John Kennedy goes it, "I'd love to have your support. I'd really love it if I could." But I said, "John, to me, you're the real John Kennedy, you're the real deal," and we came down. It was–I'll never forget, it was a Friday night, and it was this massive airplane hangar someplace. I don't know where the hell I–all I know is in your great state. And we had thousands and thousands of people show up. And I looked at him and I liked him, and I looked at that crowd, I said, "You know what? I think you're going to win tomorrow." The election was on a Saturday and John Kennedy won by a lot. It was a great thing and a great thing for our country. Where is John Kennedy? John, come here, come here, come here John. And then, we have another guy. Any time I talk about healthcare. Anytime, I want to know anything about medical, anytime I want to know anything about taking care of people, I call a man named Bill Cassidy. He's incredible. What a heart, what a heart. Come on up here, John. Come here, John. Oxford. [applause]
Senator John Kennedy. Is this incredible or what? [applause] I mean, is this Louisiana? Got–I told you, Donald J. Trump loves Louisiana like the devil loves sin. [applause]
Senator Bill Cassidy. Mr. President, thank you. Now, Mr. President, earlier I gave them a quiz. I imagined you were running against Joe Biden—[booing]—and I asked them a set of questions, "Who's more likely to secure the southern border, Joe Biden or Donald?"
Crowd. Trump!
Cassidy. But there's one question I forgot to ask him, who promised to build a new Calcasieu River Bridge? [cheers and applause]
The President. Two great men, two great men. Two great Americans. Another man who's very brave. He was really in bad condition. I was at the hospital that night that he was expected to die. He wasn't looking too good that night. I have to tell you, I went there, and the doctor said, "It's almost impossible to save him." And I must–I saw him today, I swear it. I think he's better looking now than he was two years ago. The greatest thing, he was playing baseball. He was shot while they were practicing, he was shot at second base, Steve Scalise. Right Steve? But the greatest story. The greatest story. So, he's recovering, and I mean he really–I don't want to go into it, but he–he had a lot of damage. And he went out and he played in the baseball game like six months later, seven months later, he could hardly stand up. And they had a bit second base, he didn't have big range. Like I'd say, range would be about six inches. And the first batter, rips a ground ball, right at him. I said, "Oh, this is going to be terrible." And he got down and he got that ball. And he caught it and he threw it to first, he could barely throw, he threw it the first and the batter was out of sight. That's like a miracle. The first pitch of the game. [applause] I said, "How tough is that?" I don't think anybody else would have been able to stop that sucker, that was hard hit. But he's a great friend of mine and he's another one. He loves your state. He loves you so much and he's really a brave guy, Steve Scalise, Steve. [applause]
And then we have some other great warriors, great Congressman. Thanks, Steve. Great, great Congressman, Mike Johnson, Clay Higgins. Come on up, fellas. Garret Graves, Garret Graves, what a group–they're warriors. Thank you, fellas. Thank you. They make our lives so much easier in Washington. We can always count on Louisiana. Can we stay here? You have a man who is your Attorney General Jeff Landry, he's terrific. [applause] And Secretary of State Kyle Ardoin, Kyle Ardoin. And you have an Agriculture Commissioner, Mike Strain, well known all over the country. And Insurance Commissioner, Jim Donelon. Thank you, Jim. And Solicitor General, Liz Murrill. Thank you. Thank you. Nice hat.
And we are going to do something that a lot of Presidents and a lot of people have said, and you need it and all the work is done. It's getting ready for final approvals. That's the hard part. In many cases, not the money, it's the approvals. It's all done. We're going to rebuild the I-10 Calcasieu River Bridge. [cheers and applause]
Was set. Right? Right? We're going to build it, Calcasieu. Finally, I would like to welcome the winners of the 2019 Little League World Series championship. So, I have to—[applause]—they're Louisiana's own River Ridge, Little League baseball team, but I have to tell you the crazy story. So, I mean, look at these handsome kids, it drives me crazy, how good looking they are. Look at them. So, kids stay there for second because I got to tell you. So, I'm in the White House today and we had the little league girls championship team, and they were incredible and they come from North Carolina and they were undefeated. I think they were like 20-0. And then of course, I got into a competition, who's better you or them? And one of these guys gave them a 25% chance. I don't know if you're very popular on your team anymore. Anyway, that's a pretty good. But they were incredible, and they had a tremendous team, North Carolina. And then I said, "So you're from North Carolina?" And then the guys came in and I said, "Where are you from?" They said, "Louisiana." [applause] And that one guy, he's like six foot two, he's 12 years old. And he's the pitcher. And he throws the ball, they say–one of the young guys was telling me, 75 miles per hour. I said, "No wonder, you won. The other team can't see the pitch. That's pretty good, 75." I think he's being recruited by the entire major leagues already. He's 12 years old. But I said to him, "So where are you from?" They said, "Louisiana." I said, "You won't believe this. I'm going on a beautiful plane called Air Force One, world's most beautiful plane. I'm going to a place called Louisiana, do you want to come?" [applause] Right? Right? And they looked at their parents, I'd say I don't want to take their parents to heck with their parents. I didn't want to take their coaches, but their coaches are great, and their coaches are here and their coaches–raise your hand, coaches. In fact, you come up with them. But they won, the whole deal all over the world. They're the No. 1 team. And there's like–somebody told me, they sort of were like thousands of teams all over the world and they won. And I got so used to watching Japan win. You know, for years Japan won, I think they ended up beating Curaçao. Right? Curaçao. But Japan would win, and it was always a little controversial. You know, to be a guy in youth, 12. Of course, I–I'm not saying this, I won't. He's 12, but he seemed to be 18. But I'm only kidding Prime Minister Robbie. Because Robbie's a friend of mine, so he'll understand by the way I kid. He threw the ball, this one kid about 109 miles an hour, faster than any major leaguer and he was 12. He had the greatest muscle tone anybody's ever seen for a 12-year-old. But Japan always did great. But this year you have the world champions Little League, from Louisiana. [cheers and applause] So congratulations to Will Andre, Gavin Berry. Come on up here, kids. Jeffrey Curtis, Ryan Darrah, Derek DeLatte, Marshall Louque, Conner Perrot, Ryder Planchard, Egan Prather, Reece Roussel, Alton Shorts, Peyton Spadoni, and Stan Wiltz. Boy, I'll tell you what? [applause]
I just said, does anybody want to say something? They said, "No, no, no." But you and I know, they don't choke. We know, you don't choke. You don't know what the word choke means, right? [applause]
Member of Louisiana Little League Baseball Team. Thank you all for the support. [applause]
The President. So, where's this big pitcher like six-two and seventy-five? Come here now, come on. Come here. I want to represent this guy. Somebody's gonna make a lot of money representing him who weighs 350 pounds and can't get out of his seat. You ready for the Major League someday?
Member of Louisiana Little League Baseball Team. Yeah
The President. What do you throw at 72, 75? And did you do pretty well? He kept them pretty well shut out, they couldn't see the ball, right? And what did you win the last score? What was the last score? Eight to nothing, right? Eight to nothing. So, you didn't pitch a bad game, right? [applause]
Thanks fellas. I don't think they want to leave us. You go ahead. Go ahead right there. Thank you, kids. Great job. [cheers and applause] Thank you, fellas. Champions. There's no choke. They don't choke and we don't choke. We don't like chokers. With the help of everyone here tonight, America is booming again and winning like never before. We're winning, we're putting America first. You haven't heard that in a long time. Seven million Americans have been lifted off of food stamps since our great election. [applause] Unemployment just reached his lowest rate in over 50 years. Unemployment for African Americans, Hispanic Americans and Asian Americans have hit the all-time lowest rates in the history of our country. [applause] Wages are rising fast, and they are growing twice as fast for low-income workers.
They have the biggest percentage increase, low-income workers. 1.3 million fewer children live in poverty today than when I was elected, 1.3 million people. I've cut a record number of job killing regulations. We passed the largest package of tax cuts and reforms in American history. Nearly a trillion dollars has already been poured back home. It's coming back in. Remember, people would have their money over there. They couldn't bring it back in. It was prohibitive. The legislation was impossible. We got rid of it, over a trillion dollars now has been brought back in and it's being spent building in the United States instead of building overseas. [applause]
Meanwhile, the Democrats running for President have pledged to abolish all American production of oil and natural gas. Oh, that's wonderful. In other words, Democrats are promising to annihilate Louisiana's economy. [booing] But we're never going to let them do that. And I have to tell you, this isn't a campaign speech because we're going to win it by like 35 points. One of your Senators said, one of your Senators just said. This is really, I came here to–I get you to go out to vote tomorrow. I don't want to get too carried away with this, but one of your Senators just told me, said, "Sir, you don't ever have to come back to Louisiana. We have your back. Go to those states that are close, go to Michigan, go to Pennsylvania. Go to North Carolina." I don't think they're very close. You know, the other night in North Carolina, two weeks ago, we won two Congressional races. They thought we'd lose one or the other was going to be maybe a one point, two-point victory. We absolutely won them by so much nobody ever saw. I did something like this the night before the election. We did this. It was the same kind of an arena. It was packed and that was North Carolina. I think we're going to do great there. I think we're going to do great in Pennsylvania. We won Pennsylvania last time, the first time in many years. We won Michigan, we won South Carolina and Florida and Wisconsin. We won Wisconsin, Wisconsin.
We need the USMCA, we got to get that approved. We got to get Nancy to approve the USMCA. If she doesn't that really, you know, we call them the do-nothing Democrats and it's really the do nothings. But we'll do it after we take over the house, if it doesn't get done then. [applause]
The last administration betrayed our nation's energy workers, now we are proudly promoting American energy independence. We're independent. I approve the Keystone XL pipeline and the Dakota Access pipelines. Forty-eight thousand jobs, my first week in office. I signed executive orders to speed up the construction of critical energy infrastructure which you people are so well aware of. And I opened up ANWR, the largest drilling site perhaps, they think anywhere in the world it's in Alaska. They couldn't get it done. Even Ronald Reagan could not get it done. We got it done. Bill and John and your Congressman, we got it done. We're also reversing decades of ruinous trade policies that ransacked the communities of this state. Louisiana, lost one in four manufacturing jobs after the twin disasters of NAFTA. One the worst trade deals ever made in history which we're replacing. And China's entrance into the World Trade Organization, probably the worst trade deal ever made. Now, we are replacing NAFTA with the brand-new U.S.-Mexico-Canada agreement. And the USMC will be a massive victory for farmers and ranchers and growers and workers all across the state. I don't know if the farmers are going to need it after China. They may say, "We can't do anymore. Please, please. We don't want anymore, Mr. President." They'll be calling me from Nebraska. They'll be calling me from Iowa. Remember, I used to say it, "We're winning so much." "Please, please, Mr. President, we don't want to win so much. We're not used to it." They'll be calling me from Nebraska, they'll be calling me from Iowa. They'll be calling me from that beautiful midsection, which was so beautiful, bright red, you know, you had a little blue on the edges. And if there was honest voting, I really think, I would've won that too. But there's not–there's not. Whatever they tell you, there's not.
But they'll be calling please, we don't need anymore. We can't do it. We'll go crazy here. We're working too hard. They want us too much. Isn't that a nice feeling though? Isn't that great? Democrats in Congress should get back to work and pass the USMCA immediately. We've taken the toughest ever action to confront China's decades of abuse and now we're getting along with China. This was a great day. This was the day–I don't know if anybody saw it. In fact, I was almost late for you because I was with China. I said, "I'm not going to be late for Louisiana even if it means standing up China a little bit." It was between Louisiana and China. I had to take Louisiana. [applause] But today, I was with the Vice Premier of China, one of the most powerful men in the world, highly respected. And we made that significant progress toward a new deal that's getting papered now. And who knows, you know, getting papered but it's going to happen. Because they want it, they want it badly. And it's going to end the mistreatment of American workers and companies. It's gonna be so great for this country. It's going to be great for China too. We will not rest until we've achieved economic fairness and justice for the American worker and for American people.
On issue after issue, Democrats have put the needs of foreign citizens ahead of our own citizens. It's true. You know, we protect borders of other countries. We don't protect our own borders. But I want to thank Mexico, the President of Mexico, he's great. Twenty-seven thousand Mexican soldiers are on our border. And you see the numbers? They plummeted 27,000. Think of it. All because the Democrats wouldn't approve, simple changes to what we call the loopholes, their loopholes. It's a good name because they're just absolute mistakes made years ago. And the Democrats in 15 minutes, we could solve the problem. So, Mexico, has helped us more at our border than the Democrats. Honestly, they're terrible and all they want to do is this foolishness. They don't want to pass anything. All they want to do is play these games because they're desperate to win in 2020. And instead–you see what's happening with the polls? It's turning the other way because people see their game. The voters are smart. [applause]
In a recent Democratic debate, every single Democrat Presidential candidate raised their hand, in favor of giving free government healthcare, to illegal aliens. [booing] And then, you wonder why they come to America? Why wouldn't they come? Free healthcare, free education, free everything. And I jokingly said one time–and everybody then gets a Rolls-Royce. And the fake news said, "President Trump, lied. He said that the illegal immigrants all get a Rolls-Royce." They don't have a lot of sense of humor. That's the problem with this press, what a bunch of dopes. Free Rolls-Royce. "The President told a lie. They don't get a Rolls-Royce." I'm only kidding about the Rolls-Royce. I just don't want to have a story. You know, I have a bad story. I did it again. I promised the Rolls. I–I was just kidding.
The Democrats vision for America is to rob American taxpayers to fund socialism for the entire world.
If you don't want Democrats to raid your health care, steal your money, over crowd your schools and overwhelm your communities, then you have only one choice. You have to go out tomorrow, vote Republican, get John Bel Edwards, the hell out of office. [cheers and applause]
In everything I do, I never forget, that I am not President of the world, I am President of the United States of America. [cheers and applause] We reject globalism, and we embrace patriotism. We believe that every American citizen, no matter their background, deserves a government that is loyal to them. The Democrat Party and the extreme radical left are trying to abolish the distinction between citizens and non-citizens. In many cases, people that come into our country illegally used to be treated then–I mean, they were treated better than our vets. Hey, we have a great vet. We have a number of great vets. People that came in illegally were treated better than our vets. They're treated better than our own citizens, not anymore. [applause]
Just recently, New York City–I love New York City. We've got some real bad leadership over there now. New York City–you know, the mayor ran for President. He left, he got zero, how do you get zero? It's impossible. There's got to be one strange person out there that votes he–he got zero. And New York wanted him to do so well. They were backing him because they didn't want him back as mayor. They would have even said, "Let him be President. Just keep him the hell away from me." But New York City, the same mayor, issued a rule that the use of the term illegal alien can now be punishable with a fine of up to $250,000. [booing] Can you imagine? Can you imagine you're a hard worker, you're saving your money? You just built up that 250,000 after 15 years of construction work. You got 250, you're rich. You feel better than Trump ever did. And you just happened to–in one of those bad moments, use the word, illegal alien. And they say, "Thank you very much. I want your money." Give me that 250,000 you work your ass off for.
The left's attack on free speech goes hand in hand with their attack on America's borders. The radical Democrats assault on American freedom and American citizenship will now end. Democrats also continue to encourage foreign interference in our elections by refusing to support a simple and beautiful thing called voter I.D. [applause] Maybe I can ask our Senators and Congressmen put a bill, it is so popular.
You know, if you want to go out and buy groceries, you need, identification. If you want to do almost anything you need identification. The only thing you don't need identification is to vote, the most important single thing you're doing, to vote. You don't need it. You know why? Because they cheat like hell, that's why. Maybe John and Bill could put out a voter I.D.–I never spoke to them about you guys believe in that don't you? Is that okay? They can put it out. They'll do it. Oh, you have it in the state. Do you have a strong federal application? I love it. That's why I love this state. That's why I won by so much. Oh, that's so great. Listen to this, now I know, why I won by so much. Because people couldn't cheat. That's great. Will you have it for tomorrow's election? Yes, I love this state it's so great. But don't change, put it out for every other state because most states don't have it. We believe only American citizens should vote in American elections, and that's not what's happening. You go out to California and you see what's happening out there? It's a disgrace. The Voter Abuse, it's a disgrace what's happening in California. Democrats even support deadly sanctuary cities which defy federal law enforcement and unleash violent criminal aliens onto your streets. Republicans believe our cities should be sanctuaries for law abiding Americans not for criminal aliens. And we will always stand with the heroes of ICE Border Patrol and our great law enforcement that got that person out of here so fast. Right?
Last night, they had cops love Trump, but I said, "Cops love Trump and Trump loves cops." It's true. The Democrat Party, he has never been farther outside the mainstream. Honestly, they've gone crazy. They've gone through. They're not doing anything, they're just evil. It's like they're, they're–they're crazed lunatics. Every Democrat running for President is pushing a health care agenda that would end Medicare as we know it betraying our nation's seniors. My administration will always protect Medicare for our beloved seniors, and we will always protect patients with preexisting conditions. And will also protect your private insurance. We have 180 million people–who has private insurance here? A lot of people. Oh. How would you like it, if they take it away? So that you can walk to a hospital emergency rooms someday. [booing] You go to a hospital emergency room because you have a cold, it's not good.
We've taken swift action to lower the price of health care for working families with new options that cost up to 60% less than failed Obamacare. And we got rid of the individual mandate in Obamacare, the most–the most unpopular unfair thing. That's why you pay a fortune, for the privilege of not having to pay a fortune, for your healthcare. So, you're paying not to have to pay, it's terrible. Anyway, I got rid of it. It's a big deal. That's a big deal. That was not easy. Our ambitious campaign to reduce the price of prescription drugs has produced the largest decline in drug prices in more than 50 years. You see that. And we're bringing them down much lower and we're even going to give our states. You know, the drug industry has it pretty well wired. Drugs are very expensive. Outside, in other countries, you can buy the exact same drug for 50%, 60, 70% less than you pay. Same drug, same factory, same company. So, it's not like it's different. I just gave Ron DeSantis, governor of Florida, and I'm giving other governors the right to go to Canada and other states and other countries, other countries. To buy the drugs, because they pay much less. We can cut our prices by 50, 60, 70% in some cases. So, we're giving states the rights to go to other countries and make a deal on drugs. It's easier than going through this horrible system where the Democrats refuse to allow you to do anything to cut the price of drugs. They don't want to let you do it. To help patients with life threatening conditions, we passed–I love it–right to try. So, if you're terminally ill, if you're very sick, we have the best doctors and labs, technicians in the world. They have so many different things, but it will be four, five, six years. You couldn't get it. You know why? You're terminally ill, and they tell them we don't want to make you sick. You're terminally ill, you're going to be around for four weeks. And they say, "We can't give you this drug because it may hurt you." For 50 years, they have been trying to get it. Not that easy. You'll not going to get it pretty quickly.
I said, "You know, what we'll do? We'll do these like little disclosures." That says you're not going to sue the government. You're not going to sue the drug company. You're not going to–I have them come in. But people come in, now they sign. And I tell you, it's a miracle. So many people have been saved.
It's incredible, it's incredible. They don't have to wait six years, they'll be gone. Right to try, proud of it.
Virtually every top Democrat also now supports, late term abortion, ripping babies straight from the mother's womb. [booing] Right up to the moment of birth. That's why, I've asked Congress to prohibit extreme late term abortion because Republicans believe that every child is a sacred gift from God. [applause] Democrats are now the party of high taxes, high crime, open borders, late term abortion, socialism and blatant corruption. The Republican Party is the party–the American worker, the American family and the American dream, that's what they want. Republicans want the American dream. [applause]
We have confirmed 100–people don't ever believe this, record stuff. One–Obama gave me 142, 142 federal judges. I said, "How many do I have?" I figured it was none. "Sir, you have 142," I said, "You have to be kidding." Within two months, we'll have about 182 federal judges including court of appeals—[applause]—to apply the law as written, including two great Supreme Court justices, Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh.
Our historic investment in rebuilding the military has included $25 million to a place called Barksdale Air Force Base. You ever hear of it? Right here in Louisiana. And $40 million to Naval Air Station Joint Reserve Base, New Orleans, right? And our warriors have now more ammunition, more missiles, more rockets, more tanks, more fighter jets and more of everything our troops need to defend our nation than we have ever had before, and it's all made in the USA. [applause]
At the same time, we're putting a stop to the endless wars. We have to bring our folks back home. Wars going on for 19 years and we're really police agents. We're not fighting wars there, we're just policing. And we can't do it, not fair, not fair. Other countries should help us, they don't treat us right, but they're starting to. You watch. Going into the Middle East is one of the worst decisions ever made in the history of our country. It's like quicksand. We spent $8 trillion in the Middle East and then we want to fix up a highway or we want to build your bridge, and they say, "Sir, it's a lot of money." We just spent $8 trillion in the Middle East, we got nothing for it. We're slowly and carefully bringing our great soldiers and warriors back home. [applause]
After decades of rebuilding foreign countries, we are finally rebuilding our own country. For years, you watched as your politicians apologized for America. Remember that? Not so long ago—[booing]—not so long ago. Remember bowing? We don't like the bow. Now, you have a President, who is standing up for America and we are standing up for the great people of Louisiana. [applause]
The path to victory begins with a giant win tomorrow right here in the great state of Louisiana. With your support, we will show the corrupt Democrats in Washington that the American people are not backing down. We will never ever forget. We will send a terrific new Republican governor to Baton Rouge. So tomorrow before the game, get your friends, get your family, get your neighbors and get out and vote Republican. These are two great people, vote for Ralph, vote for Eddie. Get out and vote Republican. With your help, we will lift millions more of our great citizens from welfare to work, from dependence to independence and poverty to prosperity. Together, we will elect more Republicans to Congress to create an immigration system that protects American jobs, wages and families.
And we'll be able to tell Mexico and their great 27,000 soldiers that are doing this as a favor to your President. We're not paying for it. We will tell them, thank you very much your services are no longer needed. We will enact trade deals that result in more products proudly stamped with the four beautiful words, Made in the USA.
We will achieve new breakthroughs in science and matters, finding new cures for childhood cancer and ending the AIDS epidemic in America. You didn't know that this could be done. It will be ended in 10 years and we have the medicines to do. Can you believe that? And it could have been started a long time ago and they didn't do it, but I'm doing it. We've already started. Ten years, the AIDS epidemic will be ended. Think of that? Who would have thought we could do that?
We will defend privacy, free speech, free assembly, religious liberty and the right to keep and bear arms. [cheers and applause] And above all, we will never stop fighting for the sacred values that bind us together as one America. We support, protect and defend the Constitution of the United States. We stand with the incredible heroes of law enforcement. They are great. I just hope they know how much we cherish them and believe in them and I think they do. We saw it last night in Minnesota. We believe in the dignity of work and the sanctity of life. We believe that faith and family, not government and bureaucracy are the true American way. We believe that children should be taught to love our country, honor our history and to always respect our great American flag. [applause]
And here in Louisiana and all across this land, we live by the words of our national motto, "In God, We Trust." That will never be taken down. We stand on the shoulders of American patriots who crossed the oceans, settled a continent, tamed the wilderness, revolutionized industry, pioneered science, won two World Wars, defeated fascism and communism and we're going to defeat socialism and put a man on the face of the moon. [applause] Proud citizens like you, helped build this country and together we are taking back our country. We are returning power to you, the American people. With your help, your devotion and your drive, we are going to keep on working, we are going to keep on fighting, and we are going to keep on winning, winning, winning.
We are one movement, one people, one family and one glorious nation under God. America is thriving like never before and ladies and gentlemen of Louisiana, the best is yet to come. Get out and vote tomorrow. Together we will make America wealthy again. We will make America strong again. We will make America safe again and we will make America great again. Thank you, Louisiana, get out and vote tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. [applause]
[Music: The Rolling Stones, "You Can't Always Get What You Want"]
  