
    Pool Reports by Steven Miller, The Washington Times



Sent:
Reports:




 October 19, 2020 10:12

 Print Travel Pool #1 
?Greetings from Las Vegas.
Motorcade rolling from Trump International Hotel at 10:12 p.m. PDT for Las Vegas airport.
Pool did not see the president exit the hotel. 


 October 19, 2020 13:33

 Print Travel Pool #2 (resend) 
Motorcade arrived at AF1 in Las Vegas at 10:27 p.m. PDT.
Pool did not see president board AF1.
Wheels up soon for Phoenix, Ariz. 


 October 19, 2020 14:26

 Print Travel Pool #3 
Wheels up 10:38 a.m. PDT.
Wheels down 11:23 a.m. MST. 


 October 19, 2020 14:50

 Print Travel Pool #4 
President Trump deplaned AF1 at 11:34 MST.
He was greeted Sen. McSally and Gov. Ducey.
He had a combative recharge with press on tarmac.
Asked about debate prep, he said: "I'm doing this. I do very well in debates. You do what you do."
He then walked across tarmac to Marine One at Bout 11:45. PM.
Wheels up 11:49 p.m. MST 


 October 19, 2020 15:18

 Print Travel Pool #5 
Wheels down 12:15 p.m. MST in Prescott, Arizona, 


 October 19, 2020 15:42

 Print Travel Pool #6 
Jumped the gun on Marine One wheels down.
Marine One buzzed over the thousands of people at the rally before circling and landing nearby at about 12:30 p.m. MST. 


 October 19, 2020 16:23

 Print Travel Pool #7 
President Trump's rally in Prescott, Arizona, was televised.
Here are some highlights filed before end of speech because of unreliable internet connection here.
His opener:"Hello, Prescott! I better speak fast. This sun is hot.""I saw this crowd and then I saw a crowd bigger than this over there waiting to get in."
"The fake news — they never report this."
On DOJ investigation of Hunter Biden and Joseph Biden:He said, "Bill Barr is a very nice man and very fair man.""In many ways, it doesn't make some of us happy, b b is a wonderful human being and a very fair man."He said Barr doesn't want to hurt people.
On Fauci:He said Fauci was wrong a lot, including on being against masks early on in the pandemic."He's a wonderful guy. I like him. He's just got a bad arm."
On NBC's Kristen Welker who will moderate the final debate:"She's a radical Democrat."He said she deleted her tweets to hide what she had posted in the past.He said she has been shouting questions at him since he became president."She's no good. I figure, what the hell."
On Biden:"He's gonzo folks. He has no idea. The people running that party are radical left-wing maniacs."He called Biden "Sleepy crazy crooked Joe.""Can you imagine if Don Jr. had the troubles of Where's Hunter?"
On the economic rebound:He said the economy is already rebounding as the country "rounds the corner" on the pandemic.He said that "some of the numbers are better than before" the pandemic hit thanks to the economic foundation his administration built."We built such a strong foundation. If we didn't have that foundation, this would be a disaster."
On early voting/polls:"Early voting. Our people like to go out and vote. they like to vote. … They are starting to get a little nervous on the other side.""It's going to be big. You don't have events like this and come in second in Arizona. … We are in first place in Arizona. These fake people back here, the press. … The same thing happened last time. I'd never done it before so I believed them."
On rally sizes:"These are the biggest rallies in history ever held by a political candidate."He said the press will not report on it. 


 October 19, 2020 17:02

 Print Travel Pool #8 
Rally ended.
Marine One wheels up at 1:55 p.m. MST..
Headed to next rally with pool following in Ospreys. 


 October 19, 2020 16:56

 Print Travel Pool #9 
?Marine One wheels down at about 2:37 p.m. MST in Phoenix and taxied down runway to AF1.
The president emerged from Marine One and walked to press on the tarmac.
He said he didn't think his race was tied to Senate races such as Sen. McSally's in AZ. "I'm an individual and I think I'm doing very well" "I don't think the are tied together. I was never a bug believer in that theory."
He walked a short distance to gangway. He boarded AF1 at 2:50 p.m. MST.Wheels up soon for Tucson.
MTK 


 October 19, 2020 18:35

 Print Travel Pool #10 
AF1 wheels up at 2:58 p.m. MST in Phoenix.
AF1 wheels down at 3:29 p.m. MST in Tucson.
More gaggle with President Trump on tarmac in Phoenix:
On his stamina campaigning:"I feel great.""I don't think anyone can do what I do.""I'm doing it because I think it is very important."
Asked about what emotion he was running on and whether he was "running scared":"I'm not running scared. I think I'm running angry. I'm running happy and I'm running content because we've done a great job."
On whether FBI should investigate Joe Biden and Hunter Biden:"The FBI should be investigating him. You should call [FBI Director] Wray and ask him.""On its face he is as guilty as he could be."
On McSally and his race in AZ:Q: Is your fate tied to Sen. McSally's and her reelection?No, I don't think it has anything to do, I think she's doing fine - it's a separate - I've always viewed that as being highly overrated - I think we're very separated. We support each other voting, but i've never been a believer that we're tied together.I know I'm very well, I don't know what her numbers are, I haven't looked. a good person
Q: How are you feeling about the Senate more generally?
As we just discussed, I think they are very untied. A lot of people think are they tied together, I think that's highly overrated. I think we have some good races that are happening. I'm hearing that John James is doing well, as an example.
And I think I'm doing well. I'm an individual, I think I'm doing very well. As an individual. And I probably help some. I don't think I hurt anybody. But I don't view them as being tied together, I never did.
I could do fantastically well in this state and we could have a Senate candidate that does unbelievably badly.
And I was never a big believer in that theory.
Q: How is your stamina after campaigning for a week?
I think really good. I feel great. I don't think anybody can do what I do.
Assist from Nikki Schwab. 


 October 19, 2020 18:23

 Print Travel Pool #11 
?The Trump rally at Tucson airport started at 3:44 p.m. MST. The rally was broadcast.
A massive crowd attended the rally in front of a row of airplane hangars at the Tucson Jet Center at Tucson International Airport.
Tucson Police said the campaign expected 10,000 people. Security officials at the rally said the turnout may have exceeded 10,000.
The sprawling crowd was dotted with red MAGA hats.
A row of U.S. and Arizona flags topped the grandstand behind the stage.
Some highlights from the president's remarks:
On the economy:"We were beating China.""We were beating everybody. … And then we got hit by the China plague and we had to start all over again."
On Green New Deal:He said it was a crazy plan."No more airplanes. No more devil cars. No more cows if you have a ranch."
On Joe Biden:"Joe Biden is a servant of the left-wing globalists and lobbyists.""Joe Biden is and always has been a corrupt politician. You know what, you knew that and a lot of people knew it for a long time but now you have the laptop. It's all over."He said Rep. Adam Schiff jabbed Rep. Adam Schiff for saying the laptop was Russian disinformation."Here we go again. Russia did it. Russia. Russia. Russia."He said DNI Ratcliffe said the laptop was not part of a Russian disinformation scheme.He said the news media was not covering the story because they want to protect Joe Biden.
The rally is still underway at 4:22 p.m. MST. 


 October 19, 2020 19:50

 Print Travel Pool #12 
President Trump left the stage at 4:44 p.m. MST.
He walked short distance to AF1 and gave fist pump to press before climbing stairs. He stopped at top of stairs, turned around and waved to rally crowd.
He entered AF1 at about 4:46 p.m. MST.
Wheels up soon for D.C. 


 October 19, 2020 23:24

 Print Travel Pool #13 
?President Trump visited the pool cabin during the flight and raised objections about changes to the format for Thursday's debate with Joe Biden. He said he would participate in the debate despite the changes.
"I'll participate, I just think it is very unfair," said the president.
"I will participate, but it's very unfair that they changed the topics and it is very unfair that again we have an anchor who is totally biased," said the president.
The president made other remarks that were off the record. 



  