
    Richardson also receives endorsement of State Rep. Pedro Marin, continues to outwork opponents on visit to Atlanta
ATLANTA, GA-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today launched the inaugural Georgia chapters of Mi Familia con Richardson as part of a busy day of events. Richardson also spoke at the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus' Annual Labor Luncheon and met with supporters at the legendary restaurant The Varsity.
Mi Familia con Bill Richardson is a nationwide grassroots initiative to organize the Latino community on behalf of Governor Richardson.
"Latinos are beginning to tap their growing political and economic power and will be crucial to the outcome of this election," Richardson said. "We are reaching out to Latino communities here in Georgia and across the country, talking about the important issues facing our nation and engaging them in the process. Together, we are going to win this election."
At the Mi Familia launch, Governor Richardson also proudly accepted the endorsement of Georgia State Representative Pedro Marin, the first Latino to have a proposed bill become law in Georgia. Representative Marin, who represents the 96th House District, is in his third term and was part of the first-ever class of Latino legislators in the Georgia General Assembly in 2002. In the House, he serves on the Banks and Banking, Industrial Relations, and Legislative and Congressional Reapportionment Committees.
"I am honored to receive the endorsement of Representative Marin," Governor Richardson said. "His support illustrates my campaign's growing momentum around the country. As I have the opportunity to speak with voters, they see that I have the experience to bring about the bold change that America needs. I am a grassroots campaigner at heart, and I will continue to outwork my opponents and make my case in communities and living rooms nationwide."
The first chapter in the nation of Mi Familia con Richardson was formed on August 23rd in Las Vegas, Nevada. At the Atlanta event, Richardson talked about his goals for the country upon becoming President.
"We must get every American troop out of Iraq and end the war-- this means leaving behind no residual troops," Richardson said. "We must also lead the way toward peace and lasting stability with an intensive diplomatic effort. We need comprehensive immigration reform that does not tear apart families. We must make our economy work for the middle class, and we must make quality, affordable health care available for every American."
Governor Richardson shared his message of optimism and common priorities in his keynote address to the Georgia Legislative Black Caucus. He also gave insights on multiculturalism and the restoration of American principles and leadership at home and abroad.
"Issues of diversity are not talking points to me-- they are my life," Richardson said. "Leading on the issues of race is about speaking authentically. I was lucky enough to have parents who loved me and worked hard to provide me with the best chances in life. I want all of America's children to have the same chances I did."
  