
    Pool Reports by Anumita Kaur, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




October 15, 202209:35 EDT

VP Travel Pool #1: Marine 2 flies in at JBA
Good morning from Joint Base Andrews!
It's a sunny, clear morning.
Vice President Harris arrived at Joint Base Andrews via Marine 2 at 9:28 a.m. ET. She walked off M2 at 9:33 a.m. ET.
Harris, wearing a black trench coat and navy blue pantsuit, waved to the press and then boarded Air Force Two.
AF2 will be wheels up shortly, en route to Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport.
From the White House: 
Greeting the Vice President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:Major Nicholas Konishi, Deputy Director of Flight Line Protocol
Traveling with the Vice President aboard AF2: Deputy Secretary Cindy Marten, U.S. Department of EducationDeputy Secretary Julie Su, U.S. Department of Labor



October 15, 202209:40 EDT

VP Travel Pool #2: Wheels up at JBA
AF2 was wheels up at about 9:40 a.m. ET. We're en route to Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport.



October 15, 202211:21 EDT

VP Travel Pool #3: Wheels down in Detroit
AF2 was wheels down at Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport at 10:57 a.m. ET. The flight was generally smooth, but had a few moments of turbulence. It's a cold day in Detroit.
Harris exited AF2 at 11:15 a.m. ET and was greeted upon arrival by Michigan Lt. Gov. Garlin Gilchrist. Harris and Gilchrist shook hands, had a brief conversation and laughed on the tarmac. Pool was out of earshot for their conversation. Harris waved to press.
The motorcade rolled out at 11:19 a.m. ET, en route to nonprofit FOCUS: HOPE in Detroit, where Harris is slated to attend a Michigan Democratic Party fundraiser with Gilchrist and Gov. Gretchen Whitmer, followed by an event highlighting the CHIPS and Science Act.



October 15, 202213:17 EDT

VP Travel Pool #4: fundraiser
The motorcade rolled up to FOCUS: HOPE at 11:45 a.m. ET for the Michigan Democratic Party fundraiser. Pool did not see Harris exit motorcade; pool shuffled directly into the fundraiser.
There were about 200 people at the event. Rep. Brenda Lawrence, Attorney General Dana Nessel, Lt. Gov. Garlin Gilchrist and Gov. Gretchen Whitmer were present, all of whom delivered remarks prior to Harris' entrance (in the order that they are listed).
Whitmer concluded her remarks by welcoming Harris on stage. Harris walked into the fundraiser and on stage at 12:49 p.m. ET.
Harris hugged Whitmer and opened by praising Whitmer's leadership.
"We got a lot to get done in the next 24 days," Harris said. "24 days. 24 days, and we are going to, again, ask our neighbors and our friends … we're going to ask them to vote," Harris said. "Because there is still so much on the line. Think about where we are right now," stating that the Supreme Court "took a constitutional right" away from American women.
"One does not have to abandon their faith or their deeply held beliefs to agree that the government should not be telling her what to do with her body," Harris said. "The Court has acted, and now we need Congress to act."
"Our President Joe Biden has said he will not let the filibuster get in the way of signing the Women's Health Protection Act that would put into law the protections of Roe v Wade," Harris said.
"We are looking here in Michigan, as an opportunity to flip the legislature," Harris said. "Three more seats."
"When we think about what is at stake right now, on so many of these issues, understand democracy is on the ballot," Harris said. "But here's the thing I know about people from Detroit: when you fight, you win."
Harris concluded her remarks at 1:11 p.m. ET and departed the fundraiser event to tour the FOCUS: HOPE facility.



October 15, 202214:23 EDT

VP Travel Pool #5: facility tour and press remarks
Harris began the tour of the FOCUS: HOPE facility at 1:44 p.m. ET.
Harris appeared excited—nodding often and asking questions—as facility instructors and students described the organization's manufacturing and engineering work. During the tour, an auto-manufacturing robot began spazzing. "Is that a happy thing? That's amazing," Harris laughed.
The tour concluded at 1:58 p.m. ET, and Harris addressed the press at 2:02 p.m. ET.
The CHIPS and Science Act was a national investment, "with the purpose of creating jobs, such as in semiconductor manufacturing."
"Ultimately, the CHIPS and Science is about making manufacturing in the United States more competitive and stronger," Harris said, adding that Whitmer's leadership has led to thousands of new jobs in Michigan.
She concluded and walked out 2:08 p.m. ET.
The motorcade rolled out of FOCUS: HOPE at 2:14 p.m. ET, en route to Southfield High School in Detroit, where Harris is expected to deliver remarks about voting.
From the White House: 
Tour participants:
Governor Gretchen Whitmer (D-MI)Lt. Governor Garlin Gilchrist (D-MI)Deputy Secretary Julie Su, U.S. Department of LaborPortia Roberson, CEO of Focus: HOPE
Tour Stop 1: Auto Manufacturing RobotKevin Green, Focus: HOPE instructor
Tour Stop 2: Manufacturing SimulatorTemesha Holley, Focus: HOPE graduate
About Focus: HOPEFocus: HOPE is a nationally renowned civil and human rights organization, and a trusted member of the community for over five decades. Founded in 1968 by Father William Cunningham and Eleanor Josaitis, and led today by CEO Portia Roberson, Focus: HOPE provides an intergenerational and holistic mix of services to disrupt the effects of racism, poverty and other forms of social injustice in southeast Michigan.



October 15, 202215:55 EDT

VP Travel Pool #6: Southfield High School
The motorcade arrived at Southfield High School at about 2:30 p.m. ET. Pool did not see Harris exit motorcade; pool headed directly into the Michigan First Vote event.
The school's gymnasium was packed and boisterous, with the school band entertaining the crowd.
Harris walked on stage at 3:16 p.m. ET.
"To the young leaders here: I will say, I know you guys have been through a lot these past two years," Harris said. "People that have had to go through the most, …are usually some of the most generous people you've ever met. …And that is true of you." She stated that voting is one of the greatest ways that young people can serve their communities. "Our nation needs you."
Harris referenced a wide scope of issues, including mental health, gun violence, abortion and the climate crisis, and urged young people to vote.
Harris concluded at 3:40 p.m. ET. The motorcade departed Southfield High School at 3:53 p.m. ET, en route to Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport. Harris is scheduled to head to Los Angeles next.



October 15, 2022
[APP Note: Report #7 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


October 15, 202216:46 EDT

VP Travel Pool #8: wheels up at Detroit
AF2 was wheels up at 4:44 p.m. ET, heading out of Detroit Metropolitan Wayne County Airport, en route to LAX.



October 15, 2022
[APP Note: Report #9 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]



  