
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:

Caryn A. Wagner, Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security
Philip S. Goldberg, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Intelligence and Research, Department of State 
P. David Lopez, General Counsel, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission

President Obama said, "My administration is well-served by individuals like these, who have shown themselves to be professional, knowledgeable, and dedicated throughout their careers. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Caryn A. Wagner, Nominee for Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, Department of Homeland Security
Caryn Wagner is currently an instructor in intelligence resource management for The Intelligence and Security Academy, LLC. She retired from the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence on October 1, 2008, where she served as Budget Director and cyber security coordinator. Prior to that, Ms. Wagner served in the Office of the Director of National Intelligence as an Assistant Deputy Director of National Intelligence for Management and the first Chief Financial Officer for the National Intelligence Program. She assumed this position after serving as the Executive Director for Intelligence Community Affairs. Ms. Wagner's previous position was that of the senior Defense Intelligence Agency Representative to the United States European Command and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. She also served as DIA Deputy Director for Analysis and Production and as Director, Military Intelligence Staff. Before joining DIA, Ms. Wagner was the Staff Director of the Subcommittee on Technical and Tactical Intelligence, House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence. Her experience also includes serving as a Signals Intelligence and Electronic Warfare Officer in the United States Army. She has a Bachelor of Arts from the College of William and Mary and a Master of Science from the University of Southern California.
Philip S. Goldberg, Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Intelligence and Research, Department of State 
Philip S. Goldberg, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, is the United States Coordinator for Implementation of United Nations Security Council Resolutions on North Korea. Mr. Goldberg has served as Ambassador to Bolivia; Chief of Mission in Kosovo and Charge d'affaires and Deputy Chief of Mission in Chile. He is currently coordinating implementation of U.N. Security Council Resolution 1874, an assignment he will continue pending confirmation by the Senate when a successor will be designated. His earlier assignments include: acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs; Executive Assistant and Special Assistant to the Deputy Secretary of State; Bosnia Desk Officer and member of US delegation at Dayton Peace Negotiations; Political-Economic Officer in South Africa, and Consular and Political officer in Colombia. Mr. Goldberg is a graduate of Boston University.
P. David Lopez, Nominee for General Counsel, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
David Lopez has served at the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) for 13 years in the field and at headquarters. He began at the EEOC in 1994 as a Special Assistant to Commissioner Casellas. Currently, Mr. Lopez is a Supervisory Trial Attorney with the EEOC's Phoenix District Office. During his tenure, Mr. Lopez has successfully tried several cases on behalf of the EEOC in a wide variety of legal bases. Before joining the Commission, Mr. Lopez served at the Civil Rights Division, Employment Litigation Section, at the U.S. Department of Justice in Washington, D.C. from 1991 to 1994. From 1988 to 1991, he was an Associate with Spiegel and McDiarmid. Mr. Lopez received a Juris Doctor degree from Harvard Law School in 1988 and a Bachelor of Science in Political Science from Arizona State University in 1985, magna cum laude.
  