
    [1.] INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA (Rear platform, 7:05 a.m.)
It is grand to see so many of you out here this early in the morning. As you may have heard, I have been getting up early all my life, and it's a good thing I'm used to it, because the President has to work 17 hours a day and he has to start early to get in that many hours.
Judging from the spirit you have out here this morning, I know you are going to elect some good Democrats this fall--for the House of Representatives, John C. Carvey; for Senator, Governor Henry Schricker; and for Governor, John A. Watkins.
Now I am out here campaigning because I believe it is essential for the welfare and progress of the country to help elect Adlai Stevenson and John Sparkman. You know the fine, liberal record Adlai Stevenson has made as Governor of your neighboring State of Illinois. He has shown that government can be used to improve the lot of the average man. That is what the Democratic Party believes in. Governor Stevenson has made it clear in this campaign that he will move forward with the great programs we have carded out since franklin D. Roosevelt was inaugurated in 1933.
There is a big difference, my friends, between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. Look at the record. The Republican Party has always been the party of the wealthy corporations, and what Alexander Hamilton used to call the "rich and the well-born." We Democrats don't ask a man whether he is in the social register, or which country club he belongs to. The Democratic Party is the party of the people, and we have shown by the record that we don't let the people down.
As President of the United States, I have worked for more than 7 years for programs to build better homes, better schools and hospitals, to extend social security, to see that the farmers and the workers and all the plain people of this country get a fair deal.
The Old Guard Republicans have fought me every step of the way, and they are the people who have now taken over the campaign of the Republican candidate for President. I am sorry to say that the Republican candidate for President doesn't know anything about the history of them. So it ought to be plain to you that the way to continue a government that is interested in your welfare is to send Adlai Stevenson to the White House.
In this campaign, the Republicans have been trying to cover up their terrible record in Congress. They are afraid to talk about the real issues, because their record is too bad. They spend their time throwing mud at the President, trying to divert your attention from the campaign. I don't mind the mud. I have thrown back too much of it and I know how to handle it.
They have been sending up a smoke screen, trying to fool the people. They make a lot of wild and reckless charges about the present administration and about the President of the United States.
And then they say, "Just turn the Government over to us and we will fix everything." And they sure would. These Republicans now say, "We are not going to tell you how we will do it. You just leave that up to us, and we will take care of it." I don't think you and the rest of the American people are going to fall for that line of hokum. If you do, you will get just exactly what you deserve. Because the record of the Republican Party is so awful, it should be a warning to you.
I have been saying that the Republican Party has opposed every progressive measure for the good of the people in this country for the last 20 years. They tell me the Republicans are squealing like stuck hogs and saying I have been unfair. Well, I don't think I have been unfair. I know them too well. You see, I have been with the administrations in Washington for the last 18 years. They can't tell you that I don't know the facts about it. A lot of times they fight and stall and block the progressive measures; and then, after they are licked, vote for them on final passage in order to get credit for having voted for a good measure.
But maybe they were in favor of something a time or two. I don't remember them if they were. But I want to be generous with them. Let's give them credit for the benefit of the doubt, and let's say they have been wrong but 90 percent of the time. Well, I'll even make it 80 percent. I still don't want you to put them in charge of the Government. I still don't think you want a party that has been against social security, against full employment, against minimum wages, against the Wagner Act, against public housing, against public power--well, I could go on with this list for an hour and never repeat myself. And I am sure you get the idea. The Governor mentions rural electrification--I'll make you a special speech on that a little later.
My friends, don't fall for the campaign year hooey the Republicans are giving you. I ask you as citizens of this great State of Indiana to study the record. The record speaks for itself, and it is only the record that I have been pulling on these people-and they can't stand it.
The record speaks for the welfare of the country, and it also says that the Democratic Party has been for the welfare of the country all the time--and the Republicans haven't.
Now, that's the issue. You won't find the Republicans discussing issues. They are talking about people, and they are using character assassination; and they are using nothing in the world but misrepresentation of the facts--because they can't stand to have the facts given to the people.
What I want you to do is just study the record. You are the Government. If you will study the record and then use your best interests in the interests of this great Republic of ours, and the welfare of the world as a whole, you will go to the polls on November the 4th and you will vote the straight Democratic ticket, and then the country will be safe for another 4 years.
[2.] ANDERSON, INDIANA (Rear platform, 8:10 a.m.)
I appreciate most highly this turnout at this hour of the day. The last time I was through Anderson we didn't stop, and I have regretted it ever since.
Now I don't think there's any secret about why I am here. I am out campaigning for the Democratic ticket, if you don't know it. I am doing that because I think this is about the most important election we have ever had. I am also doing it for the reason that I want to see the policies inaugurated by franklin Roosevelt--and carried out by me-continued. And they will not be continued if we turn the Government over to the pullbacks.
You have some fine Democrats running for office here in Indiana, and I hope you will vote for them. You certainly could improve upon your present situation in Indiana.
You have a man running for Senator who has been your Governor, and who has made an able and distinguished record--Governor Schricker. And I know he will do the same thing in the Senate, if you send him there.
Then for Congress you have Phil Dermond; for Governor, John Watkins, who just introduced me. I know you are going to put that ticket over.
As for the national ticket, we have as able a man in Adlai Stevenson as I have ever met. I don't have to tell you much about him. He is a neighbor of yours, and I expect you know his great record over in Illinois as well as I do. He is a neighbor of mine, too, because I live on the other side of him, over in Missouri.
But I would like to say this. Governor Stevenson is the finest new civilian leader to come along since franklin Roosevelt back in 1932. He will look out for you and for your interests. Roosevelt did--just as I have tried to do.
This is a very, very important election to you. It is going to make a lot of difference to you personally, a difference in your chances for peace, a difference in your chances for prosperity. Right now this city is booming. There is work for everybody, and a chance for everybody to get ahead. That is just as true in the countryside as it is in this town. In fact, it is true over the whole United States.
Now we want to keep things that way as best we can, and we can do it. We can keep our country prospering and growing every year. But it won't happen by accident. It will only happen if you have a government that is bound and determined to help you make it happen.
That is what you will get from the Democratic Party. We have proved that we can do it. Remember, 1949--slack times threatened then, but we never let it get serious. We had things booming again by the spring of 1950. That was before Korea--before the defense program ever started.
Now, what will you get from the pullbacks and the Republicans? Well, look at their record and you'll find out. In 1921, when bad times threatened, they didn't do a thing, and we had 7 million unemployed in the country. In 1929, when the same thing happened, the Republicans set a new record. That time they got unemployment up around 14 million by 1932. And if you give the country over to them again, they will improve on that.
Don't think they have changed any. The record shows they are still the same as always. Just 4 years ago a big majority of Republican Congressmen opposed a full employment bill--they were against full employment. They thought it was a crackpot idea to set a goal of 60 million jobs. Now we have 62 million jobs, not counting the military at all. But they say it is terrible. They are going to change all that.
Don't you let them do it. That is what I think they will do, if you turn the Government over to them. You will get a change, all right; but I don't think it will be the kind of a change you will want.
Remember that their candidate for president is a soldier by profession. And remember bet that a party which has proved it can't be trusted with the people's welfare cannot be trusted with the country's safety.
Think of your own interests when you go to the polls. You yourselves are the Government. Think of what helps you. And if you do that, you will go to the polls on the 4th of November, and you will vote for the welfare of this great Nation. You will vote for the efforts that we are making for peace in the world. You will vote the ticket that will do the country and you the most good.
And when you do that, you will vote a straight Democratic ticket, and the Government of the United States will be in safe hands for another 4 years.Don't forget that.
[3.] MUNCIE, INDIANA (Rear platform, 8:56
Thank you very much for this nice reception. I am glad to be here. I guess it's no secret why I'm here today. I am out campaigning for a Democratic victory in November. I hope you will support the fine Democratic ticket here in Indiana--for Senator, Governor Schricker, who has made you a good Governor; for Congress, Fred Culp, whom you just now met; and for Governor, John A. Watkins, you just gave him a salute.
I am. very proud of the national ticket-Adlai Stevenson for President and John Sparkman for Vice President. You know a lot about Governor Stevenson. He is your neighbor in Illinois, where he has done a good job. He is a very capable man, and an honest one. He really understands the problems of the everyday man in the country, and he knows how to handle the job of running a civilian government. He will make a great President. Adlai Stevenson is a good representative of the Democratic Party, and so is his running mate, John Sparkman. Both men have long and progressive records of service to the people. And service to the people--friendship for the little man--that is the main force and purpose behind the Democratic Party.
Ours is the party of the people. We put the people first above all else. That is why so many people vote for us.
The Republicans are entirely different from the Democrats. Republicans just can't be trusted to work for the plain everyday people of the country. They have no heart. That is the big issue in this campaign.
The Republicans have only the heart for the big banks and industries that foot their bills, and tell them what to do. Those are the fellows the Republicans serve--not the people. They put property ahead of the people every time. If you want proof on that, just read their awful record in the Congress of the United States.
The Republicans like to call themselves the COP. Now let me tell you what that really stands for. It stands for the "General's Own Party." Now let me read you about the generals--there's General Motors, there's General Electric, General Mills, General foods, and a lot of other generals who don't use this title. Maybe that is why most of the military generals turn Republican, like General MacArthur and General Wedemeyer and General Martin--and that other general who is the head of their ticket. At least, he is supposed to be the head of the Republican ticket, although you can't tell now who is running the Republican Party.
Now, my friends, the way he has been acting has been a terrible disappointment to me. I once thought he might be a good President, but that was a mistake. In this campaign he has betrayed almost everything I thought he stood for.
Don't you make the same mistake, or you will be stuck with it for 4 years.
In the Democratic Party we don't have so many generals. Ours is the party of the privates. I have always said I am perfectly willing to let the Republican Party have all the generals, I will take the corporals and the privates, and win the election.We also have one general, and he is the one that the Republicans won't touch with a 10-foot pole--and that is the general welfare of all the people.
Now, my friends, if all the privates will just go out and vote on election day, the country will be all right. Don't turn our country over to the generals of big industry, or over to the military generals, either. We don't want big business in government. We don't want a military government. We want a civilian government. That is the reason the Constitution of the United States made the President of the United States the Commander in Chief of the Armed forces. And the Commander in Chief of the Armed forces, the President of the United States, ought to be a civilian, so he can tell the generals and the admirals to stand around-and I have done it.
You will get that same kind of program if you put Adlai Stevenson in the White House, and I know that is what you are going to do on November the 4th.Thank you very much.
[4.] BELLEFONTAINE, OHIO (Rear platform, 11:50 a.m., e.s.t.)
Thank you very, very much. I am glad to be here. I guess there's no secret about why I am on this train trip. I am out campaigning for the Democratic victory this fall.
This is a very important election, my friends, and I hope you will vote the Democratic ticket, for your own safety and for the welfare of the country.
You have got some fine Democratic candidates here in Ohio-for Senator, Mike DiSalle; and for Governor, frank Lausche. I am very well acquainted with both and like them both very much.
As for our presidential candidate, he is the best man for the job in this whole country. Adlai Stevenson will make an excellent President. He is a man you can trust to look after your interests.
Now, I don't think it would be right for me to come to the State of Ohio again without saying something nice about Bob Taft. You know, he and I were both at the big fair in Shenandoah, Iowa, yesterday. I don't think he liked my speech out there very much. In fact, I don't think the Republicans like any of my speeches very much-especially when I go into the Republican record.
I guess I disagree with Senator Taft on almost everything. But I have a good deal of respect for him just the same. He is a man who sticks by the things he believes in, and he fights for them, too.
He is against the Democratic farm policy, and he is against our labor policy and our welfare policy--and I think he is rather proud of being in that corner. He is against our foreign policy, and makes no bones about it. He has stamped his views on the record of the Republicans in Congress. That's why he is called "Mr. Republican." He has made that record, and he is is not ashamed of it. And I wouldn't be, either, if I was in his shoes--but I'm sure glad I'm not.
I only wish that the man who beat Bob Taft out for the Republican nomination last July would stick by his principles just the way Bob does.
The General went to the convention in Chicago shouting that Taft and his supporters were a bunch of thieves and rustlers. The General was going to clean up that mess in the Republican Party. He made a big fight for "honesty"--and he won the nomination. That's the last we have heard of honesty in the Republican Party from the General.
Now the General has gone back on the men who fought Taft for him. And Taft has taken over the campaign. It has got to the point that the only way you can be sure where the General stands is to read Taft's statements saying what the candidate has agreed with him to do. That is how I found out the General had swallowed Bob Taft's foreign policy--which he denounced before Chicago. That is how I found out he had swallowed Bob Taft's line on domestic policy--farm, labor, and all the rest.
I don't think that is very nice of the Republicans, to run on Bob Taft's program-and leave him off the ticket.
Why didn't they nominate him in the first place? Why bother with all this big brass window dressing? You know, I just can't get it.
But there is one thing I do get. The General has gone right down the line and repudiated almost everything he was supposed to stand for and believe in, when he was calling Taft a rustler back there in July. For a while I thought he did that because he was a professional military man and just didn't know any better. Now I have begun to fear that he is doing it simply because he thinks it is a good way to get votes.
There was a time when I thought he would make a good President. That was my mistake, and I have found it out the hard way.
But, don't you make the same mistake, or you will be stuck with that mistake for 4 more years.
If you want to keep this country safe you have got to have a President you can trust. Think of your own interests. You are the Government. The people in this country are the power in the Government, and they exercise that power when they go to the polls. And when a man neglects his duty as a citizen and does not go and vote his sentiments and he gets bad government, he has nobody in the world to blame but himself, and gets just what he votes for or doesn't vote for.
Go to the polls, now. Do your duty. Study the record. Look at the principles on each side of the fence. Make up your own mind which party has done the most for the people and will continue to do the most for the people.
And if you do that, you can't help but vote the straight Democratic ticket on November the 4th, and the country will be safe for another 4 years.Thank you very much.
[5.] MARION, OHIO (Rear platform, 12:50 p.m., e.s.t.)
Thank you very much. I am certainly very glad to be in this town today. You know, I have had a unique experience on this trip. Coming out here, I stopped in Canton, Ohio, which was the home of William McKinley. Today I am stopping here in Marion, which was the home of Warren G. Harding. You know, I have always thought--and I still think--that Warren G. Harding was more sinned against than sinning.
There is a rumor around here that I am out here on a political trip. Well, that's right. I am out to help elect the Democratic ticket in November. You have had a look at your local State candidates, and they all look very good to me.
I am very happy about the general ticket in Ohio. I know Mike DiSalle very well. He has done a wonderful job down in Washington, and I hope you will elect him to the Senate. And Henry Drake here will make a wonderful Congressman. I don't need to say anything about Frank Lausche. You know him well enough that you are going to elect him Governor again.
But I am here particularly in the interests of the national ticket. I am very proud of our candidate for President, Adlai Stevenson. He has a fine record of public service--in the civilian side of Federal and State Government. He is beholden to no one for his nomination, and he does not have to have a lot of other people explaining how he stands on the issues.
And John Sparkman, the vice-presidential candidate, has a fine progressive record in the Senate. With these men, our country will be in safe hands.
For nearly 2 weeks now, I have been going around the country explaining to the people some of the things that everybody ought to understand before election day. I have been pointing out that there is a fundamental difference between our two parties. The Democratic Party has always had a heart for the people. With us the people come first. With the Republican Party, property comes first. The Republican Party is controlled by the big banks, big industry, and big lobbies who pay the party's bills and run the party to suit themselves.
For 20 years our Government has been run by the Democratic Party, and that has been good for all the plain people everywhere. But if you let the Republicans take over, the little man had better look out.
They tell me that when the Republican candidate for President was traveling around the Midwest, he had a sign on the back of his train which said, "Look ahead, neighbor."
I don't know what that slogan was intended to mean, but I know what that sign ought to say. What that sign should say is, "Look out, neighbor." Because if the Republicans should win this election, you surely would have something to worry about.
Do you have a job now? Do you want to keep it? Or get a better one? Well, look out, neighbor. The Republicans have had about 14 million unemployed the last time they held office.Are you retired now? Drawing social security benefits, perhaps? Well, you had better look out, neighbor. The Republicans have opposed social security whenever they dared. Just last spring two-thirds of the Republican Congressmen tried to block your cost of living increase in insurance benefits.
Do the farmers around here want a fair price for their crops, and a decent living on the farm? Well, you had better look out, neighbor. The Republicans are pretty critical of our Democratic farm programs. You can't count on them to continue these programs. And they are the best the farmer has ever had.
Do you want a people's government in Washington, an independent government that can't be dictated to by any special interest? Well, you had better look out, neighbor. The Republican candidate has been knuckling under to the special interest groups right along.
I want you to take warning. The Republican Party has a long record of opposition to the things you want and need. And the Republican candidate has shown in this campaign that he is not equipped to be the leader of this great Nation.
The Democratic Party has given this country good government for 20 years. These have been some of the most difficult years of our history, but our country has come through this period successfully. it is now the greatest and strongest Republic the world has ever seen.
I hope you will vote to keep it that way. These interests are your interests. You yourselves are responsible for the Government of the United States, because the Constitution provides that the power of government rests in the people. And it is your duty to see that that power stays there.
In order to exercise that power, it is your duty to be registered to vote on election day. And when you don't do that, you are not doing your duty--and when you get bad government, you have nobody to blame for that but yourselves.
Now do this for your own benefit, for the welfare of the Nation and for the welfare of the world. Go to the polls on November the 4th and vote for Stevenson and Sparkman-and the country will be safe for another 4 years.Thank you.
[6.] GALIO, OHIO (Rear platform, 1:35 p.m., e.s.t.)
I am glad to see you here today. I certainly want to thank you for this-fine reception.
You know, the President of the United States has five full-time jobs, and one of them is being the leader of his party. And that is my capacity here today. I am doing everything I can to help elect the Democratic ticket in November.
Here in Ohio you have some very fine candidates on the Democratic ticket, as you have been able to see just a while ago.
And I am particularly interested in the national ticket. I hope you will send Mike DiSalle to the Senate. He is a great fellow. He did a wonderful job in Washington. And Henry Drake will make you a good Congressman. You don't need any information from me about your Governor, Frank Lausche. He has made a good Governor, and I am sure you are going to send him back.
And I am as proud as I can be of the national ticket--Adlai Stevenson and John Sparkman. I want you to know this country is very fortunate to have Governor Stevenson running for President. He is a fine man. He is the kind of man who will really work for the people. His work in Illinois is the best kind of training a man can have, to perform the duties of the President of the United States.
Now there is something very serious I want to say to you. This election is going to decide whether we go on making progress in this country, or get stopped dead in our tracks. More than that, this election may decide the fate of the whole world. I say that because I know what can happen.
Should the Republicans get control of this Government, I know what they will do, because I have read their record in the Congress right down to the fine print--and that is what you have to go by. The Republican Party has been against progress in this country. It has opposed most of the great liberal measures that have contributed to our prosperity.
This election year they adopted a backward-looking platform, far more reactionary than the one they had 4 years ago. I want you to read it, and read it very carefully. am not asking you to do anything but inform yourselves; and I am bringing these things to your attention so that you will inform yourselves.
But their candidate has been trying to cover all this up by a lot of ballyhoo about a "great crusade." Now, he has been a very good general. And in fact, I made him Chief of Staff of the United States Army, and I appointed him to command the NATO troops in Europe--and I know he is a good general, or I would not have appointed him.
But the business of generals is to fight and prepare for war. They don't know anything about civilian life. They don't have the experience with civilian problems, or the political problems of the Government. Yet the Presidency is the highest civil office in the land. It calls for a man who works and thinks and has been trained in civil life. It calls for a civilian to keep the military under civilian control, as the Constitution intended. The Presidency calls for a man of great principle and strong convictions-not for a man who says whatever the special interest lobbies want said.
The Republican General is not the man we need. The man we need is Adlai Stevenson of Illinois.
I want to call the attention of you young people to something which you ought to begin to think about right now. You are going to become citizens after a while, and the fate of the country is going to be in your hands. You want to have a government in this country that is looking forward, not backward. You want to have a government in this country that goes along with progress. And you will be that government in just a few years.
And I want you to do something: inform yourselves on what this country has been, what this country must be. We are faced with the greatest age in the history of the world--and it is up to you young people to keep the Government in the position so you can carry on what has been accomplished in the last 20 years by Democratic administrations who have looked forward and not backward.
Now, every Republican campaign since 1936 has been one to turn the clock back. The speeches that are being made today were made in 1936; so are the speeches that were made in 1940; so are the speeches that were made in 1944 by the Republicans. And I was in that campaign--a candidate for Vice President. They were made in 1948--and what I had to do was go out and tell the people exactly what these people were aiming at. And what happened? 1948 was the biggest surprise they ever had in their lives.
And they are going to get another one in 1952. And then the country will be safe. Thank you very much.
[7.] CLEVELAND, OHIO (Address in the Public Square, 3:15 p.m., e.s.t., see Item 287)
[8.] ERIE, PENNSYLVANIA (Rear platform, 5:30 p.m., e.s.t.)
I thank you most sincerely for this wonderful greeting. I am glad to be in Pennsylvania, even if it isn't for very long. But I promise I will come back to your great State for a real campaign tour before election.
I think this is a critically important election for you. I want the Democrats to win, for the sake of our country and for our own welfare.
I certainly hope you will elect the slate of Democrats in Pennsylvania. You have a grand man running for Senator in Judge Bard; and for Congress you have Clinton Bebell--with whom I rode just awhile ago.
As for our national ticket, I think it is one of the best any party ever offered to the voters. Adlai Stevenson will be a great President. He has had the right experience. He has talent and ability, and he has made a splendid record as Governor of a great State. He is an honest man--honest with himself, and he is honest with the people. He is a man you can trust, and he represents a party you can trust--as you know by experience.
Now, the basic issue in this campaign is the difference between the Democratic Party and the Republican Party. The Democratic Party has shown by its record that it works for the people. With us the people come first. The Republicans have shown by their record that they place property and profits ahead of the people. With them, my friends, property and profits always come first.
I said awhile ago that the Democratic Party has a heart in which the interests of the people rest--that the Republican Party has a calculating machine where their heart ought to be, and they are always thinking of profits.
Now we have had much trouble with the labor attitude of the Republicans. Back in the early days of the New Deal administration, we passed the Wagner Act, to give labor an equal place before the law. Just as soon as the Republicans got to the point where they could, they passed that awful Taft-Hartley Act, that act was intended to put a stop to any further progress by the labor unions. Even Senator Taft now says it goes too far and he wants to change it. I think it's a little late for him to make that statement.
But I want to say to you that the Republican Party, as a party, still thinks that act is grand. The Hartley end of that organization wrote a book on it in 1948, and he said what they were going to do. Well, I read that book in Akron, Ohio, and they didn't get a chance to do it.
I am not sure that our five-star general knows enough about the Taft-Hartley Act to understand how it undermines labor unions, but whether he knows it or not, what he is talking about sounds as if he is just like another Old Guard politician. He endorsed their platform, and their five-star candidate told the A.f. of L. convention that he liked the Taft-Hartley Act. I don't know what he knows about it. Everything shows that the Republican candidate is another Old Guard Republican.
He is not a liberal. He fooled me, and he fooled all the liberal Republicans. He let Senator Taft say for him that they agreed on all domestic issues. That makes it very clear where he stands.
Then he started making speeches, which showed he had surrendered to Taft on even the foreign policy. I thought he had some firm principles about our foreign policy, and that he was opposed to the Taft isolationist policy of too little aid too late. But his speeches show I was wrong.
But worst of all, he has publicly embraced and endorsed Jenner and McCarthy. They are the two men who got up on the Senate floor and falsely attacked one of the great men of our age: General George Catlett Marshall--calling his character and loyalty into question.
George Marshall is a very great patriot, and he was the friend and benefactor of the Republican candidate. It was on George Marshall's recommendation that the Republican candidate took great commands and was appointed and was made famous by those commands. And I want to tell you that I made him Chief of Staff, and I put him in command of NATO in Europe. I did it because I thought he was the best man available for the place. He did a good job-I am not quarreling about that--but he has fooled me on this program of how to take care of the Government of the United States.
I will tell you, I never thought the candidate would speak to, let alone endorse, those two birds, Jennet and McCarthy. That act made it perfectly clear to me that I had made a mistake in ever thinking that he was qualified to be President.
You can't trust a man who switches around that way, both deserting his principles and his former friends. And you know you can't trust the Republican Party to protect your interests. They are not friends of the plain everyday man who works with his hands.
The Democrats have been the real friends of the working people, of the farmers, and of the small businessman. The Democratic Party is one you can trust. You know from 20 years of experience that you can trust them.
The Democratic candidate for President is a man you can trust.
Now, you yourselves are the Government. The Constitution of the United States says the power of government shall rest with the people. And you exercise that power when you vote in your own interests--in the interest of the welfare of this great Nation. And the welfare and the peace of the world depend on what you do on election day.
Now, go to the polls. Vote for yourselves. Vote for the welfare of this great Nation. Vote for the best interests of the whole world.
Vote the Democratic ticket straight, and you will be all right.
  