
    I am pleased today to sign two bills to provide continuing support for the United States-flag merchant marine: H.R. 5451, the Maritime Education and Training Act of 1980, the most comprehensive reform ever of our maritime training and education laws, and H.R. 6554, the Maritime Appropriation Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1981.
The United States has led the world in developing technologically superior merchant vessels. However, these sophisticated vessels can be no better than the licensed officers who operate them. Therefore, in recent years, the Federal Government has increased its role in maritime education and training.
My administration has maintained the commitment of the Federal Government to the training of young men and women as licensed officers for our merchant fleet. Such training is provided at the United States Merchant Marine Academy at Kings Point, N.Y., operated by the Federal Government, and at the six State Maritime Academies—in Maine, Massachusetts, New York, Texas, California, and Michigan—that receive Federal support.
As the Maritime Education and Training Act states, "It is the policy of the United States that merchant marine vessels of the United States should be operated by highly trained and efficient citizens of the United States and that the United States Navy and the merchant marine of the United States should work closely together to promote the maximum integration of the total seapower forces of the United States."
To further this policy, the act provides more balanced Federal support of the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the six State Maritime Academies to ensure that these institutions will provide the highly specialized training required to operate United States-flag merchant vessels. Further, the act imposes certain service obligations to ensure that the graduates of our merchant marine academies will be available to operate United States merchant vessels in time of war or national emergency.
The second bill, the Maritime Appropriation Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1981, authorizes $135 million in construction differential subsidies that will generate much needed employment in our shipyards. It provides for $347.7 million in operating differential subsidies so that U.S.-flag vessels can continue to compete in international markets with lower cost foreign operators. Further, H.R. 6554 authorizes $17 million for research and development activities, such as using coal rather than oil to run our merchant vessels.
The legislation also authorizes $32.5 million in funds for the Fiscal Year 1981 expenses of the Maritime Education and Training Act of 1980, which I have just signed. Finally, H.R. 6554 provides $38.8 million in operating expenses for the Maritime Administration. This includes funds for the preservation of vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet, which we have traditionally called upon in times of national emergency. Overall, this act authorizes a total of $571 million for Fiscal Year 1981, an increase of $136 million over the amount authorized last year.
I remain committed to a strong American maritime industry, as this legislation indicates. I look forward to continuing to work with the merchant marine community to achieve our common goal of a strong and vibrant U.S. merchant fleet and shipbuilding mobilization base.
  