
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Frank M. Coffman, of Oklahoma, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Oklahoma for the term of four years, vice Patrick J. Wilkerson, term expired.
Kurt D. Engelhardt, of Louisiana, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Edith Brown Clement, retired.
Thomas M. Griffin, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United States Marshal for the District of South Carolina for the term of four years, vice Kelvin Corneilius Washington, term expired.
Mark S. James, of Missouri, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Missouri for the term of four years, vice Alfred Cooper Lomax, term expired.
R. D. James, of Missouri, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Jo-Ellen Darcy.
Bruce D. Jette, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Heidi Shyu, resigned.
Lisa A. Johnson, of Washington, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia.
Johnny Lee Kuhlman, of Oklahoma, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of Oklahoma for the term of four years, vice Charles Thomas Weeks II, term expired.
Shon J. Manasco, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Gabriel Camarillo.
Daniel C. Mosteller, of South Dakota, to be United States Marshal for the District of South Dakota for the term of four years, vice Paul Charles Thielen, term expired.
Kate S. O'Scannlain, of Maryland, to be Solicitor for the Department of Labor, vice M. Patricia Smith, resigned.
David J. Ryder, of New Jersey, to be Director of the Mint for a term of five years, vice Edmund C. Moy, resigned.
Gary G. Schofield, of Nevada, to be United States Marshal for the District of Nevada for the term of four years, vice Christopher Tobias Hoye, term expired.
Leon A. Westmoreland, of Georgia, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years. (New Position)
Andrew Wheeler, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Robert Perciasepe, resigned.
Mitchell Zais, of South Carolina, to be Deputy Secretary of Education, vice James H. Shelton, III, resigned.
  