
    "The choice voters will face in November could not be more clear. President Obama has spent the last four years implementing policies that have devastated the middle class. And four more years will only deliver more of the same — fewer jobs and fewer economic opportunities for the next generation. As president, Mitt Romney will deliver a new direction by implementing pro-growth policies to jumpstart the economy and create 12 million new jobs for American workers." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama Has Spent Nearly Four Years Implementing Policies And Regulations That Have Destroyed Jobs And Driven Down Household Incomes:
Under The Obama Administration, 111 Coal Power Plants Are Expected To Close By The End Of 2012. "But in the past two years, an increasing number of coal-powered electricity plants across the country have announced closures. Estimates vary, but banking and industry analysis firm Credit Suisse put expected and known closures for 2009-2012 at 111 plants, that's one-fifth of the nation's nearly 500 coal plants." (Lisa Desjardins, "The War Over Coal Is Personal," CNN, 7/17/12)
Nearly Three-Quarters Of Small-Business Owners Blame Obamacare For Impeding Job Creation. "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," Politico, 1/18/12)


    Obamacare's Medical Device Tax Could Force Businesses To Shift More Than 40,000 Jobs Overseas. "The medical device industry says it could lose 10 percent of its U.S. workforce because of a tax created by healthcare reform. The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) released a report Wednesday that says device-makers might ship 43,000 jobs overseas once the tax takes effect in 2013." (Sam Baker, "Device-Makers Say Tax Will Cost 43,000 US Jobs," The Hill, 9/7/11)
  

President Obama's Treasury Department Has Refused To Label China As A Currency Manipulator Seven Times. (Don Lee, "U.S. Declines To Label China A Currency Manipulator," Los Angeles Times, 5/25/12; Pedro Nicolaci da Costa, "U.S. Again Says China Not Currency Manipulator," Reuters, 12/28/11; Gregg Robb, "Treasury Says China Isn't A Currency Manipulator," Market Watch, 5/27/11; Sewell Chan, "China's Currency Avoids 'Manipulated' Ruling Again," The New York Times, 2/04/11; Gregg Robb, "Treasury Does Not Cite China As Currency Manipulator," Market Watch, 7/8/10; Martin Crutsinger, "Administration Declines To Cite China On Currency Manipulation," USA Today, 10/15/09; Glenn Somerville and Doug Palmer, "U.S. Again Declines To Brand China Currency Manipulator," Reuters, 4/15/09)

The Washington Post: "China's Policy Has Probably Cost Americans Hundreds Of Thousands Of Jobs And Contributed To China's Destabilizing Pile Of Trillions Of Dollars In Reserves." "China's undervalued renminbi is a long-standing, bipartisan concern, and it is not a phony one: In pursuit of growth led by exports, China has held the renminbi down in relation to the dollar, rendering its goods artificially cheap in the U.S. market. The renminbi would gain about 20 percent against the dollar if it were allowed to float freely like other currencies, according to the Peterson Institute for International Economics. China's policy has probably cost Americans hundreds of thousands of jobs and contributed to China's destabilizing pile of trillions of dollars in reserves." (Editorial, "Breaking China?," The Washington Post, 8/31/11)

According To The Small Business And Entrepreneurship Council, "Business Owners Remain On Edge Regarding The Tidal Wave Of Federal Government Regulation." "'Business owners remain on edge regarding the tidal wave of federal government regulation that has been advanced or proposed over the past two years. ... The pain of the harsh recession was intensified and lengthened by this hyper-regulatory environment,' Karen Kerrigan, president of the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council, wrote in a Jan. 12 letter to Issa."  (Philip Rucker and David S. Hilzenrath, "GOP Eyes Rules That Firms Say Hurt Jobs," The Washington Post, 2/7/11)
And A Second Obama Term Would Deliver More Of The Same — Policies That Result In Fewer Good-Paying Jobs For American Workers:
President Obama's Small-Business Tax Hikes Will Jeopardize 710,000 Jobs. "Researchers determined the plan would actually subject 2.1 million business owners to higher rates; specifically, those who pay pass-through taxes, like most partnerships, LLCs and S-Corporations. The result, less capital in the hands of business owners and diminished labor supply, would cost the United States an estimated $200 billion in economic output and 710,000 jobs." (J.D. Harrison, "Obama Plan To Lift Top Tax Rates Would Plague Millions Of Small Businesses, Study Warns," The Washington Post, 7/17/12)
President Obama's Looming Defense Cuts Could Threaten Over A Million Jobs Across The Nation. (Stephen S. Fuller, "The Economic Impact Of The Budget Control Act Of 2011 On DOD And Non-DOD Agencies," Report, 7/17/12)
"Pending Rules In The White House Pipeline" Have Been Delayed Until After The Election. "Pending rules in the White House pipeline would position a re-elected President Barack Obama to outpace his predecessor with second-term rulemaking, according to a review of regulatory filings. Obama has delayed until after the election decisions on regulating ozone levels and rearview cameras for cars. Rules still need to be written to carry out much of Obama's signature first-term domestic policy initiatives, the health-care overhaul and the Dodd-Frank law regulating the financial industry." (Andrew Zajac, "Obama's Second Term To-Do List Positioned To Out-Regulate Bush," Bloomberg, 3/15/12)


    President Obama's Dodd-Frank Law Alone Has Hundreds Of Rules Yet To Be Written. "The ozone rule would cost $19 billion to $90 billion in 2020, according to the White House. The Obama administration puts the cost of rearview cameras at $2.7 billion. A Bloomberg Government study in July found that four provisions of the Dodd- Frank law may cost banks and other financial services companies $22 billion, with hundreds of rules yet to be written." (Andrew Zajac, "Obama's Second Term To-Do List Positioned To Out-Regulate Bush," Bloomberg, 3/15/12)
  

U.S. Energy Information Administration Expects 175 Coal-Fired Generators To Retire Between 2012 And 2016. "Plant owners and operators report to EIA that they expect to retire almost 27 gigawatts (GW) of capacity from 175 coal-fired generators between 2012 and 2016. In 2011, there were 1,387 coal-fired generators in the United States, totaling almost 318 GW. The 27 GW of retiring capacity amounts to 8.5% of total 2011 coal-fired capacity." ("27 Gigawatts Of Coal-Fired Capacity To Retire over The Next Five Years," Energy Information Administration, 9/16/12)
  