
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Today marks the beginning of a year-long celebration commemorating the one hundred twenty-fifth anniversary of the birth of Theodore Roosevelt, one of America's heroes and larger-than-life personalities.
Born with considerable physical handicaps, Theodore Roosevelt overcame his afflictions and drew strength from his triumph over personal adversity, a strength he would later devote to the public good. Through sheer willpower, he became a rugged outdoorsman and active conservationist, the organizer of the Rough Riders, a fearless crusader against corruption and for law and order, an explorer, a social reformer and author, our youngest President, and the first of our citizens to receive the Nobel Peace Prize. He was truly an American Renaissance man. His life was a voyage of discovery guided by deep principle and private morality.
He was also our first modern chief executive, rejecting isolationism and leading America into active participation in world decisions for which we shared responsibility. Never again would the leaders of the Old World act without regard to this new world power called the United States. He understood our people and our spirit. He identified the national character with the words, "Americanism means the virtues of courage, honor, justice, truth, sincerity, and hardihood—the virtues that made America." And I might add, the virtues that made Theodore Roosevelt.
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 27, 1982, as a Day of National Celebration of the one hundred twenty-fifth anniversary of the birth of Theodore Roosevelt. I ask all Americans to join me in commemorating the birth of this fearless American hero. Let us redouble our efforts to confront adversity and promote the virtues and ideals of Americanism.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  