
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
In July, the National Advisory Committee of the White House Conference on Families held its first meeting. The Committee adopted a plan of action for the Conference, which includes hearings, state activities, and White House Conferences at several sites throughout the country.
A major goal of the White House Conference on Families, which I called for in my campaign for the Presidency, is to identify public policies which strengthen and support families as well as those which harm or neglect family life, and to recommend appropriate changes. To accomplish this goal, the Conference must have the support and assistance of every Department and Agency within the government.
I am, therefore, directing Department and Agency heads to cooperate fully with the staff of the White House Conference on Families. Such cooperation should include, but not be limited to, the following: Identifying and cataloging programs, policies and research studies which impact on family life; analyzing the impact of selected policies and programs; publishing studies, reports and other informational materials relating to families; providing details, logistical assistance, meeting facilities and other resources for Conference activities; earmarking discretionary funds for projects which support the goals of the White House Conference on Families, and informing employees and constituent groups about Conference activities.
To demonstrate this Administration's commitment to the goals of the WHCF, I am requesting Agency and Department heads to be available to make presentations at the hearings which will be held this fall and at the White House Conferences scheduled for June and July of next year. To coordinate government-wide participation in the Conference, an Interagency Task Force will be established. Please designate one of your Special Assistants or an Assistant or Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy or Planning who has knowledge of family-related programs and a capacity to draw on the resources within your Department to serve on this Task Force. Notification of this appointment should be sent to John Cart, Executive Director of the White House Conference on Families (472-4393) by October 25, and your designee should plan to attend the first meeting of the Interagency Task Force scheduled for November 1.
Thank you for your assistance in helping strengthen and support our nation's families.
JIMMY CARTER
  