
    
We're currently running a contest for you and one other person to get to attend the next GOP debate, in Colorado next week — ticket, flight, and hotel are on us.
Want to know just how cool an experience this could be? We asked a winner of a previous contest, Nicole, how it felt to attend the first Republican debate, in Cleveland back in August.
Q: Why did you decide to enter the Cleveland Debate Contest?
A: My family and I are Day One supporters of Marco Rubio and his campaign. Since we made the decision to support his campaign financially, it made sense to give a donation and to register for the trip at the same time. But to actually receive the call that I had won the contest was something I never imagined. It was so exciting, I could hardly believe it! (And neither could my husband—he thought I was joking!)
Q: What was your favorite moment of the first debate?
A: To choose a favorite moment in the debate is tough — the whole experience of attending the debate in person was so amazing and surreal! However, one of memories that stands out was at the beginning of the debate, when Bret Baier asked the candidates to pledge that they would support the eventual nominee of the the Republican Party and not run as a third-party candidate. The entire audience erupted into cheers and applause, which really set an electric tone for the remainder of the debate, and seemed to intensify the camaraderie and excitement of the Republicans in the arena.
Q. What surprised you most about being in the audience for the debate instead of watching on TV?
A: My daughter and I both loved to watch the candidates during the commercial breaks. It was so interesting to observe them as they interacted with one another and with others during those break. We felt like we learned so much about the various personalities and temperaments of the candidates during those unscripted moments when the cameras were off.
Q: What would you say to anyone thinking about entering our Colorado Debate Contest?
A: Definitely do it! The Marco Rubio campaign team treated us to the experience of a lifetime that we will never forget and will forever be grateful for. This election is proving to be historic on so many levels, and we encourage everyone to be a part of it by registering to win a trip to the next debate!
I don't want to end without saying that my support of Marco Rubio was completely solidified by the experience of attending the Cleveland debate. I cannot describe how compelling it was to see Marco live and in person as he demonstrated his in-depth knowledge of the issues and his love of America.
We left the debate that night more convinced than ever that Marco Rubio is, without a doubt, the most qualified candidate to lead our country during this crucial time!
Want to have an experience just like Nicole's? Make a donation of $10 or more and sign up here.
  