
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

During National Job Skills Week, 1988, every American can reflect on the good news that our economy is far along in its sixth year of uninterrupted growth, employment is at an all-time high, and the average unemployment rate this year is the lowest in 14 years. Our economy, unlike that of many of our international competitors, is creating several million new jobs each year and helping meet the challenges of greater economic competition and rapid technological change.
Our celebration of a week in recognition of all who foster, teach, and learn job skills should include awareness that jobs now being created demand capabilities and higher levels of literacy. A recent report by the Secretaries of Commerce, Education, and Labor, "Building a Quality Workforce," reminds us of these demands and the concomitant need for improved skills among entry-level workers. We can address workplace requirements in a changing economy if business, labor, educators, community groups, and all levels of Government cooperate to strengthen workers' skills and adaptability.
The Federal Government is doing its part in this regard by supporting education, training, and employment programs for disadvantaged and dislocated workers. These programs include adult basic education, vocational education, and dropout prevention efforts; the summer youth employment program; an expanded adjustment program for dislocated workers; and training assistance through a $1.8 billion Job Training Partnership Act block grant. The JTPA has been particularly effective in reintegrating citizens into the work force, by stressing private sector involvement and concentrating on skills actually needed in localities across our land. The new Economic Dislocation and Worker Adjustment Assistance Program will build upon JTPA to provide Federal grants to States, offering rapid response to dislocation and a comprehensive approach to education and employment assistance for workers affected by plant closings or large layoffs.
Let us observe National Job Skills Week, 1988, with greater understanding of the skills, needs, and devotion of America's workers and with continued appreciation and support for private and public job training efforts in their behalf.
To focus national attention on the role of job training in maintaining a competitive work force, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 333, has designated the week of October 9 through October 15, 1988, as "National Job Skills Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 9 through October 15, 1988, as National Job Skills Week, and I urge all Americans and interested groups to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  