
    Today, Mitt Romney announced that Anthony Principi and Jim Nicholson will serve as the co-chairs of his Veterans Policy Advisory Group. The group will counsel Romney on issues of importance to the nation's veterans and help to formulate policies that will ensure America keeps its commitments to the men and women of the armed services while they are on duty and after they return home. Romney will discuss elements of his veterans policy today aboard the U.S.S. Yorktown in Mount Pleasant, South Carolina.
"America can never fully repay our veterans for the sacrifices that they have made for our country," said Mitt Romney. "But we can do everything in our power to support them in the field and at home. My Veterans Policy Advisory Group is helping to identify the needs of our Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs and to develop policies to ensure that we meet those needs."
Principi and Nicholson issued a joint statement: "Mitt Romney cares about our men and women in uniform, our nation's veterans, and their families. He has spent his career leading organizations and strengthening their performance, and under a Romney administration those who have served our country can be assured their Department of Veterans Affairs will be there for them. We are at a critical juncture in our nation's history. Governor Romney will ensure that veterans receive the world-class medical care and benefits they deserve, and supply the men and women in uniform today the military they need to win wars and come home safe."
Background On The Co-Chairs Of Mitt Romney's Veterans Policy Advisory Group:
Anthony Principi Served As The Secretary Of The Department Of Veterans Affairs From 2001 To 2005. Principi is a 1967 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy. He commanded a River Patrol Unit in Vietnam's Mekong Delta and also served in the Navy JAG Corps after receiving his law degree. He has worked as Republican chief counsel and staff director for the U.S. Senate Committee on Armed Services and for the U.S. Senate Committee on Veterans Affairs.
Jim Nicholson Served As The Secretary Of The Department Of Veterans Affairs From 2005 To 2007. Nicholson is a 1961 graduate of the U.S. Military Academy and served as a paratrooper and Ranger-qualified officer in the U.S. Army, retiring from military service in 1991 with the rank of Colonel. He has also served as Chairman of the Republican National Committee and as the U.S. Ambassador to the Holy See.
  