
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted October 20
Kermit Lipez, of Maine, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Conrad K. Cyr, retired.
A. Howard Matz, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Harry L. Hupp, retired.
Submitted October 22
Daryl L. Jones, of Florida, to be Secretary of the Air Force, vice Sheila Widnall, resigned.
Richard M. McGahey, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Anne H. Lewis.
William J. Lynn III,
of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller), vice John Hamre.
William Dale Montgomery, of Pennsylvania, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Croatia.
Submitted October 23
Linda Key Breathitt, of Kentucky, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for a term expiring June 30, 2002, vice Donald Farley Santa, Jr., term expired.
Curt Herbert, Jr., of Mississippi, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 1999, vice Elizabeth Anne Moler.
Frank D. Yturria, of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring June 26, 2002 (reappointment).
Paul J. Hoeper, of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Gilbert F. Decker, resigned.
Submitted October 24
William R. Ferris, of Mississippi, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities for a term of 4 years, vice Sheldon Hackney, resigned.
Curt Hebert, Jr., of Mississippi, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 1999, vice Elizabeth Anne Moler.
L. Paige Marvel, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years after she takes office, vice Lawrence A. Wright, retired.
Withdrawn October 24
Curt Herbert, Jr., of Mississippi, to be a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 1999, vice Elizabeth Anne Moler, which was sent to the Senate on October 23, 1997.
  