
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Brian D. Montgomery of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 
Brian Montgomery serves as Assistant Secretary for Housing, Federal Housing Commissioner, Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). Nominated by President Donald J. Trump in September 2017, his confirmation marks the first time an individual has served as head of the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) twice, and under three different administrations. As Assistant Secretary for Housing, he oversees HUD's project-based Section 8 rental assistance housing program, the Office of Housing Counseling, and HUD's Manufactured Housing Program. Mr. Montgomery is also responsible for the management of FHA's more than $1.4 trillion mortgage insurance portfolio. With more than 30 years of experience in both the public and private sectors, including his first term as Commissioner from 2005 to 2009, Mr. Montgomery brings to HUD a deep knowledge of housing issues and vast experience spearheading large-scale policy initiatives. Mr. Montgomery holds a B.A. in Political Science from the University of Houston.
Thomas B. Chapman of Maryland, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board.
Thomas Chapman is minority counsel to the Senate Commerce Subcommittee on Aviation and Space. He has nearly four decades of experience working on government, legislative, and regulatory affairs. Mr. Chapman has been involved in a range of issues, including the recent bipartisan efforts to pass comprehensive legislation reauthorizing the Federal Aviation Administration, Transportation Security Administration, and National Transportation Safety Board. Mr. Chapman previously served as US Airways' vice president for government affairs. Before joining US Airways, Mr. Chapman was legislative counsel for Southwest Airlines. He also served as senior vice president for government and technical affairs for the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association. Mr. Chapman is a graduate of the American University Washington College of Law in Washington, D.C., and C.W. Post College in Greenvale, N.Y.
  