
    Mr. President, Mrs. Sadat, ladies and gentlemen:
It is obviously a very, very great honor to have Mrs. Sadat and you with us this evening, and particularly for me to have the opportunity today, tonight, and tomorrow, and next Sunday, to strengthen our personal relationship.
Although you have been in our country before, Mr. President, this is the first state visit by an Egyptian President to visit the United States. I believe your visit, Mr. President, symbolizes the very close working relationship of our two countries and what has been achieved in the last 2 years.
We honor you tonight as a friend of the United States and for your commitment to provide your people many of the same goals that the American people have striven for and cherished over the long 200 years of our young history.
You are committed, I know from our personal discussions, to improving the conditions of life for all Egyptians, and for the people of the entire Arab world.
You have recognized that we must work together to overcome the tragedy of unfulfilled lives--lives marked by disease, malnutrition, undereducation, underemployment, and the devastation of war.
Americans--and I say this from personal contact--respect your vigorous pursuit of peace and your efforts to devote your nation's energy and your nation's resources not to continue conflict, but to meet the needs of your people.
We in the United States are committed to work with you toward such worthy goals. Failure to achieve peace in the Middle East will affect the lives of Americans and the lives of our friends in the Middle East and, actually, throughout the world.
We share your deep belief and conviction that nations can gain much by working together. Your courage, Mr. President, in taking the first steps toward peace after almost three decades of warfare assures your place in history in the Middle East. And we congratulate you for it.
You are the man, Mr. President, who assumed the lead in ending a conflict that for more than a generation absorbed the lives, the energies, and the substance of many, many nations. We have been proud to work with you in this very noble cause, and we will continue to do so.
Mr. President, I know from my conversations with you that we had in Salzburg, and from our many other exchanges, that your dedication to peace is for all the people of the Middle East. I say again tonight, emphatically and categorically, that we share the view that the process of making peace for all must continue.
No step we have taken can be an end to itself. There can be no peace until the legitimate interests of all the peoples of the Middle East are taken fairly into account in a final peace settlement.
I wish to address a special word, Mr. President, to your charming wife. My own wife, Betty, is doing much to inform me about the rights and the problems and the desires of women in the new freedoms of modern society. Sometimes she thinks I am an apt--and sometimes a less than apt--pupil. [Laughter] But anyhow, I am pleased to observe that Mrs. Sadat has distinguished herself in your nation by her contributions to both the well-being of all Egyptians and to a new consciousness of the status of women and the efforts in your country to achieve equality of opportunity.
Ladies and gentlemen, I ask that you join me in a toast to the President of Egypt and to our mutual objectives.
To the President:
  