
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

At a time when experienced sailors navigated only within sight of shore whenever possible, Christopher Columbus conceived of a route no other had and sailed boldly into the open seas. Columbus' example reminds us that we must be willing, even eager, to leave the comfortable but often limiting shores of yesterday and journey toward the difficult and unmet challenges of tomorrow.
Exploring the frontiers of the new world, Columbus set the stage for the encounter between Europeans and Native Americans, an encounter whose impact continues to be felt today. It is particularly important to recognize anew the sacrifices and hardships suffered by both sides as a result of this meeting and to salute the rich cultural heritage each group has bestowed upon its descendants. Through time and tears, exchanges between these two cultures have led to greater understanding and rich opportunities for harmony and healing.
This year, as we celebrate the founding of a new world that is finally learning the infinite value of diversity, we continue to take an important lesson from Columbus' travels. In his great spirit of adventure and discovery, I encourage all Americans today to let the quartering winds of change propel us into the 21st century. Facing the future with courage and openness, as Columbus did in his day, we must strive to meet the challenges of the future with logic and foresight and with the certainty of moving ever forward.
In tribute to the many achievements of Christopher Columbus, the Congress of the United States, by joint resolution of April 30, 1934 (48 Stat. 657), and an Act of June 28, 1968 (82 Stat. 250), has requested the President to proclaim the second Monday in October of each year as "Columbus Day."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 10, 1994, as Columbus Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities. I also direct that the flag of the United States be displayed on all public buildings on the appointed day in honor of Christopher Columbus.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  