
    THE PRESIDENT of the United States takes pleasure in presenting the
PRESIDENTIAL UNIT CITATION
TO THE
FIRST MARINE DIVISION (REINFORCED), FLEET MARINE FORCE, PACIFIC
for service as set forth in the following
CITATION:
For extraordinary heroism and outstanding performance of duty in action against the North Vietnamese Army and Viet Cong forces in the Republic of Vietnam, from 29 March 1966 to 15 September 1967. Throughout this period, the First Marine Division (Reinforced), operating in the northern provinces of Quang Ngai, Quang Tin, and Quang Nam, superbly executed the threefold mission of seeking out and destroying the enemy, defending key airfields and routes of communication, and conducting a dynamic pacification and revolutionary development program. Operating in the defense of the Chu Lai area, which grew from 254 square miles in March 1966 to 1,531 square miles by October 1966, the Division extended protection and pacification to over one million Vietnamese without loss of continuity in operations. In canopied jungles, rugged mountains, and through swampy lowlands, the war was carried to the enemy. During eighty-seven major operations conducted in conjunction with 158,000 patrols, the Division soundly defeated the determined adversary. The major offensive operations carried out against entrenched and fortified forces, captured tons of rice and emancipated complete villages of the Vietnamese, while defensive actions resulted in a harvest of 7,620 tons of rice gathered by approximately 10,000 Vietnamese villagers, protected by Marine Forces. In March 1967 the Division deployed units to the Demilitarized Zone while continuing to expand its general offensive and maintain continuous pressure against the enemy. During the entire period, combat operations were made meaningful by simultaneous pacification and revolutionary development programs, which were extraordinary in concept, and brilliant in execution. The First Marine Division's unrelenting combat spirit and initiative, undeterred by intensive enemy fire, monsoon rains, and incessant heat, inflicted massive losses on the enemy and denied him the political and military victories he sought to achieve. By their effective teamwork, aggressive fighting spirit, and many individual acts of personal heroism and daring, the personnel of the First Marine Division forged an illustrious record of sustained courage and professional competence, which reflected great credit upon the Marine Corps and were in keeping with the highest traditions of the United States Naval Service.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
  