
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 2
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Palo Alto, CA, to Beverly Hills, CA, and in the evening, he traveled to Brentwood, CA.
October 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Beverly Hills, CA, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning.
October 4
The President announced his intention to nominate Alphonso Maldon, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Management Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Cornelius P. O'Leary to be a member of the National Security Education Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate John K. Veroneau to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Legislative Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Roy E. Barnes to be a member of the National Drought Policy Commission.
October 5
The White House announced that the President met with Senate Finance Committee Chairman William V. Roth, Jr., and ranking Democratic Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan in the Oval Office to discuss Medicare reform.
October 6
The President announced his intention to nominate Donald Stuart Hays to be U.S. Representative to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador.
October 7
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City, and in the evening, he traveled to Ottawa, Canada.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jeanne P. Nathan to the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
October 8
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Mont-Tremblant, Canada, where he addressed the Forum of Federations Conference in the Mali Ballroom at the Chateau Mont-Tremblant. Later, the President met with Premier Lucien Bouchard of Quebec.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alan P. Larson to be Under Secretary for Economic, Business, and Agricultural Affairs at the Department of State.
The President announced his intention to nominate Carol Moseley-Braun to be U.S. Ambassador to New Zealand.
The President announced his intention to nominate Amy L. Comstock to be Director of the Office of Government Ethics.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marc H. Morial as a member of the Twenty-First Century Workforce Commission.
  