
    AT THE invitation of the President of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Josip Broz Tito, the President of the United States of America Richard M. Nixon, accompanied by Mrs. Nixon, and their party, paid an official visit to the SFR [Socialist Federal Republic] of Yugoslavia from 30 September to 2 October 1970. During his stay President Nixon visited, in addition to Belgrade, Zagreb and Kumrovec.
The meeting between the two Presidents, which took place in a cordial and frank atmosphere, provided an opportunity for frank talks on the most important contemporary international issues and on Yugoslav-American relations. These included the Middle East, South East Asia, East-West relations, European security, less developed countries, and bilateral problems. Each side presented its views in a candid manner.
Both sides agreed that negotiation rather than confrontation is indispensable for peaceful and just solutions of international problems.
It was also emphasized that co-operation on the basis of equality among independent and sovereign countries, is the sole basis on which relations and progress in today's world can be founded.
Presidents Tito and Nixon noted with satisfaction the growth of good and friendly relations between their two countries. They pointed out in particular that relations between the SFRY and the USA were fully based on the principles of independence and mutual respect which are also the fundamental principles of the Charter of the United Nations. The two presidents expressed the conviction that relations on such a basis were not only in the interest of the peoples of their two countries but constituted a significant factor for stability and peace in Europe and elsewhere in the world.
They resolved to continue to promote extensive bilateral relations. Concrete forms of cooperation were discussed, especially in the economic and scientific technological fields.
The two sides agreed that it was useful and desirable to continue the practice of broad exchanges of views and contacts in their mutual relations.
  