
    Duffy Lyon Touts Rural Agenda Obama Rolled Out Last Week
Des Moines, IA - -One week after laying out his rural policy agenda at a farm in Fairfax, the presidential campaign of Senator Barack Obama began airing a radio ad today featuring the sculptor of the famed Iowa butter cow, Duffy Lyon. Lyon, who raises dairy cows and beef cattle with her husband on a farm outside Tama, says she believes that Obama's plan for rural America is "for real." You can listen to the ad by clicking here: http://iowa.barackobama.com/ForUs.
"You know, you see a lot of manure in our line of work," Lyon says. "It's a lot like politics. You got to know what's bull and what's for real."
In the 60-second spot titled "For Us", Lyon calls Obama's commitment to standing up to Washington special interests and fighting for rural America "gutsy".
"Barack Obama's got a real plan for rural America," Lyon says. "And it's gutsy because it looks out for us, not lobbyists. It ends huge payments to factory farms that drive family farms out of business and gets rid of income taxes for most Iowa seniors."
Lyon also praises Obama for seeking input and ideas from Iowans who live in rural communities as he put together his "Real Leadership for Rural America" plan. Before unveiling his rural policy agenda, Obama hosted a rural issues forum in Adel and a rural policy summit in Tama and directed his staff to conduct more than 30 meetings in rural communities across Iowa this summer.
"But the best part is he listened and knows our kids need opportunity here in Iowa so they don't have to leave home to follow their dreams," Lyon says in the ad.
In addition to limiting subsidies to wealthy corporate farmers and creating incentives for conservation and sustainability, Obama's proposals including eliminating taxes on most seniors, lowering health care costs, protecting pensions, strengthening schools and expanding economic opportunity in rural communities. You can read Obama's entire "Real Leadership for Rural America" plan here: http://my.barackobama.com/page/content/ruralplan/. The full script for the radio ad can be found here: http://iowa.barackobama.com/forusbackup.
  