
    HOUSTON, Texas — Presidential candidate Ted Cruz today announced the expansion of his Tennessee Leadership Team, with new endorsements from nine state legislators and 48 pastors, grassroots leaders, and elected officials. These new additions join 27 leaders previously announced, bringing the campaign's state leadership team to a total of 84 members.
"Our Tennessee team continues to grow and demonstrate the commitment to fighting for conservative principles," said Cruz. "I'm encouraged by the new members of the team who have passionately defended liberty and will help us compete and win the state of Tennessee."
New endorsements include former House Speaker Pro-Tempore Judd Matheny, former talk radio host Steve Gill, and the president of the Tennessee Pastors Network Dale Walker.
New State Leadership Team members:
Rep. Judd Matheny, 47th District, former House Speaker Pro-Tempore and Coffee County Republican Party Chairman
Rep. Sheila Butt, 64th District, House Majority Floor Leader
Rep. Kelly Keisling, 38th District, House Insurance and Banking Subcommittee Chairman
Rep. Mike Sparks, 49th District, Vice Chair of the House Local Government Committee
Rep. Courtney Rogers, 45th District, House Transportation Committee Vice Chair, Retired Lt. Colonel, U.S. Air Force, and Nuclear Advisor
Rep. Micah Van Huss, 6th District, House Criminal Justice Committee Vice Chair, Retired Marine Sniper
Rep. Jerry Sexton, 35th District, House Majority Assistant Floor Leader, Pastor
Rep. Jay Reedy, 74th District, U.S. Army Veteran
Rep. Jason Zachary, 14th District, Americomm Principal and Executive Vice President
Steve Gill, former Host of The Steve Gill Show
Dana Gill, Williamson County
Tina Benkiser, Tennessee Republican Party State Executive Committeewoman, former Republican Party of Texas Chairman, former Senior Advisor to Gov. Rick Perry
Lynne Davis, Tennessee Republican Party State Executive Committeewoman
Scott Smith, Tennessee Republican Party State Executive Committeeman
Chris Thompson, former Mayor of Byrdstown, former Pickett County Republican Party Chairman
John Uitendaal, Dyer County Legislative Body Chairman
Rob Mathis, Cocke County Trustee
Reggie Howard, Fayette County Commissioner
Richard Daniel, Pickett County Executive
Josh Stites, former Nashville Metro Councilman
Ben Graham, Tennessee Pastors Network Vice Presdient, Pastor of Music City Baptist Church
David Baker, Pastor of the Family Baptist Church
Dale Walker, President of the Tennessee Pastors Network, Pastor of Union Hill Wesleyan Church
Kevin Burden, Senior Pastor of Cornerstone Baptist Church
Rob Bremer, retired Pastor, past Chairman of the Sevier County Tea Party
Phil Hauser, Assistant Pastor, Fellowship Community Church
Roger Burks, Treasurer/Secretary of the Tennessee Pastors Network
Paul Grant, Ruling Elder, Faith Presbyterian Church
Sharon Strange, past President of Republican Women of Williamson County
Dr. Aaron Margulies, President of the Republican Jewish Coalition of Knoxville
David Baldovin, former Chairman, Moore County Republican Party
Lynn Moss, Co-Founder and Board Member, Mid-South Tea Party
Janice Johnson, former Legislative Director of the Tennessee Christian Coalition
Laurie Cardoza-Moore, President of Proclaiming Justice To the Nations, and Special Envoy to the UN for the World Council of Independent Christian Churches
Richard Archie, West Tennessee Director of the Tennessee Firearms Association, Chairman of the 8th District Tea Party Coalition
Lana Smith, past President of the Sullivan County Republican Women
Edward Phillips, former Campaign Manager for Rep. Mark Pody and Rep. Joe Carr
Kevin Baigert, Sumner County
Laura Baigert, Sumner County
Lucy Overstreet, Leader of the Madison County Tea Party
Claire Crouch, past President of the Tennessee Federation of Republican Women
Ed Smith, former Davidson County District 34 Republican Chairman, Bronze Star recipient
Craig Reasor, former Field Director for Rep. Jason Zachary
Judson Phillips, Founder of Tea Party Nation and Columnist for the Washington Times
Bob Miles, Executive Board Member of the Cross County Patriots Tea Party
Greg Johnson, former Vice President and Treasurer of the 912 Project Tennessee
Aaron Snodderly, former State Chairman of Tennessee Young Republican Federation and Chairman of the Cumberland County Republican Party
Mel Canterbury, Chairman of the Sevier County Tea Party
Michaele Ann Swiderski, Polk County
William Swiderski, Polk County
Bryan Baskin, former Middle Tennessee Volunteer Coordinator for Santorum for President
Theresa West, Chair of the Knoxville Tea Party
Debbie Deaver, Board Member, Republican Women of Williamson County
Walter Lounsbery, past President of the Anderson County Tea Party Patriots
Penny Chastain, Humphreys County
Andrew Anderson, former Campaign Manager for Rep. Bryan Terry and Rep. Joe Carr
Matthew Studd, Chapter Leader of the Tennessee Firearms Association
Previously announced leadership team members:
Kevin Kookogey, State Chair
Stephen Siao, State Director
Joe Carr, former State Representative
Ben Cunningham, President of the Nashville Tea Party
Myra Simons, Board President of the Yes on 1 Campaign
Julie West, President of Parents for Truth in Education
Lyndon Allen, Pastor of Woodmont Bible Church
Mark West, President of the Chattanooga Tea Party
Tommy Vallejos, Montgomery County Commissioner, Pastor
James Amundsen, Williamson County
Charlie Cato, former Tennessee Republican Party State Executive Committeeman
Bob Crigger, Maury County
Kim Dahlgren, past President of the Washington County Republican Women
Dr. Lee Douglas, Founder of 912 Project Tennessee
Karen Entz, former Vice Treasurer for the Williamson County Republican Party
Hope Foulds, Knox County
Michelle Garcia, Rutherford County
Frank Gorgie, Political Science Professor
Grant Hubbard, Vice President for National Promotion at Capitol CMG
Katherine Hudgins, former Vice President of the 912 Project Tennessee
Kyle Mallory, former Chairman of the Stewart County Republican Party
John Miles, Chairman of the Union City Planning Commission and Chairman of the Obion County Tea Party
Steve Osborn, past Chairman of the Sevier County Tea Party
Rob Thacker, Pastor of Faith Presbyterian Church
Jim Vesper, former Newt Gingrich County Coordinator
Mick Wright, former President of the Northeast Shelby Republican Club
Michael Zinser, President of the Zinser Law Firm, P.C.
  