
    Pool Reports by Ashlee Banks, TheGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




October 29, 202211:07

VP Supplemental Pool #1
Good Morning!
I am your pooler for Vice President Harris' remarks for the Baltimore, Maryland rally with Wes Moore, Democratic nominee for Governor of Maryland.
Pool is gathered inside the Cahill Recreation Center where a number of invited guests are standing in front of the area reserved for media, so not the greatest view for your pooler.
The event kicked off at 11 AM ET and Vice President Harris is scheduled to give remarks at 12:30 PM ET. A full transcript of the program will be sent out later today via a White House Official.
On Background from a White House Official
Speaking Order:- Jailah Wehye performs the national anthem.- Dr. Lora Hargrove provides invocation.- Mayor Brandon Scott (D-Baltimore) delivers remarks- Yvette Lewis, Chairwoman of the Maryland Democratic Party, delivers Remarks- Congressman Anthony Brown (D-MD-04), delivers remarks- State Delegate Brooke Lierman (D-MD-46) delivers remarks- Aruna Miller, Former Maryland State Delegate & Candidate for Maryland Lieutenant Governor, delivers remarks- Congressman Kweisi Mfume (D-MD-07) delivers remarks- Congressman John Sarbanes (D-MD-03) delivers remarks- Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger (D-MD-02) delivers remarks- Congressman Steny Hoyer (D-MD-05) delivers remarks- Deli Okafor, Field Organizer, delivers remarks- Senator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) delivers remarks- Wes Moore delivers remarks- The Vice President delivers remarks



October 29, 202212:52

VP Supplemental Pool #2: Kamala Harris' Remarks 2-Min Warning
We just received a 2-minute warning.



October 29, 202213:14

VP Supplemental Pool #3 VP Kamala Harris' Remarks
At 12:59 PM ET Vice President Harris took to the stage wearing a gray suit. She gave Wes Moore a huge hug before delivering her remarks.
She first addressed the attack on Speaker Nancy Pelosi's family:
"We are all sending our prayers to the family and for Paul's speedy recovery."
"You know what's happening in our country right now...there's some scary stuff happening. There was a time when we appreciated and understood the importance of Democracy of vigorous debate. Where we appreciated that it is the diversity of opinions that will lead us to progress to smart decisions. But something has been happening in our country where powerful people so-called leaders have been using the bully pulpit that they were given by the people in a way that is about the preservation of their personal power and is being used to divide our country. They're using the bully pulpit in a way that is propagating hate and so this is one of those moments that requires all of the people to make our voices louder as a true reflection of who we are as a nation, to say that we won't stand for that."



October 29, 202213:30

VP Supplemental Pool #4
More on VP Harris' Remarks. She spoke for 22 minutes.
Roe V. Wade Remarks:
We've got a lot of good material to remind folks that the power is with the people and voting matters. And now we are ten days away from an election where the stakes are equally as high. So think about it. The United States Supreme Court, the court previously, if Thurgood Marshall just took a constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of America, from the women of America, and by the way, on the subject, one does not have to abandon your faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be telling her what to do with her body.
Remarks on Maryland Races:
All of the accomplishments that we have gained none of them would be real if it weren't for our ability to have governor Wes Moore and senator Chris Van Hollen. The job isn't done when you pass a bill. The job is done when it hits the streets.
"We got 10 days to go and Maryland you are always a leader in what's at stake...we really need you."
"Victory is ours to have if we work for it...we only make gains when we are prepared to fight for them."
When you are a role model people watch what you do to see if it matches with what you say. People around the world are watching.
The things we are doing in Maryland will not only impact Marylanders but could impact people around the world.
"Democracy is very fragile, it is only as strong as our willingness to fight for it..and so fight we will."
When we fight we win.
Her remarks and the event concluded at 1:22 PM ET.
That's a wrap!




 
Pool Reports below by Rozina Sabur, The Telegraph 



Sent:
Reports:




October 29, 202218:39

VP Pool #1: HRC dinner
Good evening,
I'll be your pooler for the Vice President's remarks at tonight's Human Rights Campaign dinner.
Pool is gathered at the Walter E. Washington Convention Center, where I'm told around 2,700 guests are expected.
The event kicked off with a blue carpet for honorees, activists, influencers and other guests. The speaker segment of tonight's program is due to begin shortly.
The VP is scheduled to speak at 7pm. A transcript of her remarks will be sent out by the White House tomorrow.
Other speakers and performers tonight include: George Takei, Ian Alexander, DJ Nico Craig, Shea Diamond, Alexis McGill, Kelley Robinson, Becky George, Nik Harris, Rafael Silva, Dyllón Burnside, Dana Goldberg and Brian Michael Smith.
The House Speaker Nancy Pelosi was initially scheduled to be a featured speaker tonight, but your pooler understands she is no longer attending following the violent attack on her husband in San Francisco yesterday.



October 29, 202218:48

VP Pool #2: Background to HRC dinner
Passing along the following:
On Background From a White House Official The Vice President will be introduced by Human Rights Campaign incoming president, Kelley Robinson. There are about 2700 guests in attendance.
Speaking order:- Human Rights Campaign Board of Directors- Alexis McGill Johnson, President & CEO, Planned Parenthood- Kelley Robinson, Incoming President of Human Rights Campaign- Vice President Kamala Harris



October 29, 202220:30

VP Pool #3: VP remarks
The Vice President took to the stage at 7.48pm wearing an all-white suit and pearl necklace set. She was greeted with loud cheers from across the busy conference room.
She began by addressing the "vicious attack on Paul Pelosi".
She said: "I spoke with Speaker Pelosi yesterday morning. She intended to be here with all of us. Many of you know of her long-standing leadership and allyship and support of HRC. She is a dear friend, she and Paul both, and so I told her that we are all praying for Paul and their entire family."
She went on to say "there's no place in America for political violence."
Ms Harris described her long history with the HRC organisation, first attending this dinner in 1999. "The president and I are so proud to have led the most pro-equality administration in our nation's history," she said to loud cheers from the crowd.
She spoke of "powerful forces" in the country that are "trying to take us backwards". She said: "Today, the rights, the freedoms and the very existence of LGBTQ+ people are under assault."
Ms Harris hit out at "extremist so-called leaders" who have pushed for a nationwide abortion ban. "This is just the beginning," she said, citing threats to contraception access, marriage equality and voting rights.
She said: "Tonight I have a message in particular for the young leaders of America. We see you and we hear you and you are not alone. There are millions of us who stand by your side and we are in this fight together."
Ms Harris discussed Democrats' push to pass the Respect for Marriage Act and the "protections of Roe v Wade into law".
She ended by reminding the audience: "Well, there is an election in 10 days. And I know in 10 days we will make our voices heard and we still speak out for freedom, we still speak out for democracy, we still speak out for equality and as always we will speak out with pride."
Her remarks concluded at 8.07pm.
In case of interest, at the opening, the Vice President was introduced by incoming HRC president Kelley Robinson and her wife, Becky George. During her remarks the incoming HRC president offered her respects to Speaker Pelosi and her family. "We are holding them in our hearts", she said.
This will be your final VP pool report for tonight. Happy Halloween!




  