
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

For decades, Arab-Americans have made valuable contributions to virtually every aspect of American life: in science, medicine, education, business, culture and government. The works of many talented Arab-American artists and writers grace our museums and libraries throughout the United States. Since the first Arab immigrant came to these shores more than a century ago, men and women of Arab descent have shared with us the rich history and traditions of Arab culture.
With pride in their ethnic heritage and with great faith in the principles upon which this country was founded, Arab-Americans have added to the strength and diversity of American society. Arab-Americans occupy positions of leadership and responsibility throughout our system of govenrment, setting a fine example of public service at the local, State, and national level.
Arab-Americans have also enriched our Nation with the quiet power of strong families and close-knit communities. Many have come to the United States in search of the blessings of peace and freedom. They have quickly seized the opportunities life in this free and democratic country affords, yet they have not forgotten their ancestral homelands. They join all Americans in the desire to bring peace and security to that troubled region. Industrious and determined, they have helped give us a more profound understanding of the rights and responsibilities we have as citizens of a free and prosperous Nation.
In recognition of the contributions of Arab-Americans, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 241, has designated October 25, 1989, as "National Arab-American Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 25, 1989, as National Arab-American Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  