
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Connecticut Co-Chairs and State Director. These community and business leaders will help build support for Governor Romney in Connecticut and make sure every voter knows his message of bringing conservative change to Washington.
Upon the announcement, Governor Romney said, "I am honored to have these Republican leaders as part of my team in Connecticut. They will be strong surrogates for our message of keeping taxes low, strengthening our military, and bringing fiscal responsibility to Washington. I am thankful for their support and I look forward to working with them over the coming months."
"Governor Romney is the best candidate to lead our country," stated Connecticut Romney for President Co-Chair, Jim Lash. "His record proves his ability to effectively improve America's health care system and control spending in Washington. Governor Romney has the leadership needed to lower taxes, secure the borders, and bring the highest ethical standards back to Washington."
Background On The Connecticut Co-Chairs And State Director:
Jim Lash – Connecticut Romney For President Co-Chair: Lash is currently First Selectman of Greenwich, Connecticut, Chairman and Founder of Manchester Principal LLC (venture capital), Member of the Corporation of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Executive Committee of the Board of the East West Institute, and Audit and Finance Committees of the Board of Baker Hughes Incorporated. He also was the former Chairman of the Finance Committee of NYCityCenter, Inc. He served as the Assistant Dean of the Graduate School of Business Administration at Tulane University from 1969-1970. From 1970-1976, he worked as a Management Consultant with Touche Ross & Co.
Mark Boughton – Connecticut Romney For President Co-Chair: Boughton is the current mayor of Danbury. Mayor Boughton served three years as Connecticut's 138th District State Representative. He had a perfect voting record in the General Assembly, where he was the ranking member of the Environment Committee, as well as a member of the Education Committee. Mayor Boughton has been committed to the revitalization of the downtown, infrastructure improvement, improving neighborhoods and citizen-government technology as well as a top notch educational system. His "People Over Politics" philosophy has evolved into a bi-partisan form of governing.
In the last two years, Mayor Boughton has committed himself to downsizing and reorganizing government, solid financial management, upgrading and modernizing schools, and enacting new legislation to protect children and neighborhoods. Mayor Boughton is devoted to making Danbury the "greatest place to live work and be educated." The Mayor is married to Phyllis Boughton who is his biggest supporter.
Jay Malcynsky – Connecticut Romney For President State Director: Malcynsky also currently serves as a Co-Chair of the Connecticut Finance Committee. He is the managing partner of Gaffney, Bennett & Associates, Inc., the Principal Partner at the Law Offices of Jay F. Malcynsky, which he opened in 1996, and sits on the Board of Directors for Connecticut Legal Services. Malcynsky was the Campaign manager for the Bush/Cheney campaign in Connecticut in 2000, and has managed campaigns for former Congresswoman Nancy Johnson, the late Congressman Stewart B. McKinney and former Senator Lowell Weicker. He has served as a trial attorney for the Department of Education, Office of Civil Rights, Minority General Counsel for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on the District of Columbia, and Special Public Defender for the Superior Court of the State of Connecticut. Malcynsky is also a member of the Connecticut Bar Association, District of Columbia Bar Association, the Federal Bar Association, Association of American Trial Lawyers, American Bar Association, and the Connecticut Trial Lawyers Association. In addition, he was a Co-Chairman for the Connecticut Campaign for Justice from 1997-1999.
  