
    Charlotte A. Lane, of West Virginia, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for a term expiring December 16, 2009, vice Dennis M. Devaney, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Daniel Pearson, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the United States International Trade Commission for the term expiring June 16, 2011, vice Lynn M. Bragg, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
A. Paul Anderson, of Florida, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2007, vice Delmond J. H. Won, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Daniel Pipes, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the United States Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2005, vice Zalmay Khalizad, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
John Paul Woodley, Jr., of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Michael Parker, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
David Wesley Fleming, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring May 29, 2007, vice Alan G. Lowy, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Jay Phillip Greene, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring November 17, 2005, vice Louise L. Stevenson, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
John Richard Petrocik, of Missouri, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2008, vice Elizabeth Griffith, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Juanita Alicia Vasquez-Gardner, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2003, vice Steven L. Zinter, term expired, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Juanita Alicia Vasquez-Gardner, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2009. (Reappointment)
Patrick Lloyd McCrory, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2005, vice Richard C. Hackett, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Jose A. Fourquet, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2004, vice Mark L. Schneider, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Adolfo A. Franco, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2008, vice Jeffrey Davidow, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Roger Francisco Noriega, of Kansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2006, vice Harriett C. Babbitt, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Ephraim Batambuze, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring February 9, 2008, vice Henry McKoy, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Mary Kramer, of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Barbados, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines.
  