
    Following the midterm election, Yang brings his message to working Americans in Detroit, Chicago, Henniker, Cleveland, Pittsburgh, Baltimore, and Iowa City.
New York, New York, October 17, 2018: 2020 Presidential Candidate Andrew Yang brings his message nationwide this November, speaking with working-class Americans at rallies in seven different cities across the country. This Humanity First Tour will present his unique vision for the future of America and its economy directly to Americans, many who live in districts won by Donald Trump in 2016.
The Humanity First Tour will kick off on November 8th in Detroit. Once a highlight of the American manufacturing machine, Detroit lost many middle-class jobs as they were replaced by industrial robots, and the city's population plummeted from a peak of 1.8 million to slightly under 700,000. The city's perseverance in the face of struggle highlights both the necessity of the Freedom Dividend and what Americans can do when our government invests in its people. The struggles faced by Detroit are a preview of what is to come, as the top five job categories (administrative/clerical work, food service/prep, retail, transportation, manufacturing) are on the cusp of being overtaken by automation. We need bold solutions to ensure that Americans can make it through this transition and prosper.
Following this kick-off event, the Tour will continue on to Chicago (9th), New Hampshire (12th), Cleveland (13th), Pittsburgh (14th), and Baltimore (15th), before ending in Iowa City on November 16th. After headlining the Iowa Wing Ding in August, Andrew has returned to the Hawkeye State five times in 2018 to meet with democratic activists and support Democratic candidates in the midterms. The support base he's built in the state will bring a large turnout for this capstone event.
During this tour, Andrew will talk about how to revitalize an economy that has left most Americans behind. The three central pillars of his solution are:

The Freedom Dividend, a $1000/month basic income provided to Americans aged 18-64, no strings attached;
Medicare for All, ending the fear of medical bankruptcy while removing one of the largest costs associated with starting a small business; and
Human-Centered Capitalism, changing the focus of our economic measurement from GDP to numbers that reflect the well-being of the average American.

He has an additional 70 policy positions outlined on his Policy Page, including solutions to the opioid epidemic, student debt crisis, and housing/zoning problems in urban areas.
Andrew Yang Humanity First Tour — November 8-16



Date
Time
Event
How To Join


Nov. 8
5:00pm EDT
Detroit Humanity First Kick-Off Rally
RSVP Link


Nov. 9
5:00pm CDT
Chicago Humanity First Rally
RSVP Link


Nov. 12
6:00pm EDT
New Hampshire Humanity First Town Hall
RSVP Link


Nov. 13
5:00pm EDT
Cleveland Humanity First Rally
RSVP Link


Nov. 14
5:00pm EDT
Pittsburgh Humanity First Rally
RSVP Link


Nov. 15
5:00pm EDT
Baltimore Humanity First Rally
RSVP Link


Nov. 16
5:00pm CDT
Iowa City Humanity First Closing Night Rally
RSVP Link



Complete media kit is available here.
About Andrew
One of the most exciting candidates to enter the 2020 US Presidential Race, Andrew Yang is an entrepreneur and author running as a Democrat.
In 2011, he founded Venture for America, a national public service fellowship that places recent grads in struggling communities to help local businesses revitalize the economy. Over 6 years running the organization, Andrew helped to create more than 2,500 jobs in cities like Cleveland, Detroit, and Pittsburgh. His work at VFA saw him recognized by the Obama White House as a 2012 Champion of Change and a 2015 Presidential Ambassador for Global Entrepreneurship.
When Andrew realized that artificial intelligence and other automation technologies threatened to eliminate one-third of all American jobs and current politicians weren't even recognizing the problem, he knew the nation needed a leader with a vision on how to enter this radically different future.
Andrew's innovative platform focuses on solutions to problems being faced by normal Americans, including the implementation of the Freedom Dividend: $1,000 a month for American adults, no strings attached. See his features in the New York Times and CNBC; his speech at the Iowa Wing Ding; his podcasts with Sam Harris and Ezra Klein; and his campaign video.
About The Freedom Dividend / Universal Basic Income
Universal Basic Income (UBI) guarantees a certain minimum income to every citizen within a given governed population, without having to pass a test or fulfill a work requirement.
Andrew Yang's Freedom Dividend is a universal basic income set at $1,000 per month, or $12,000 per year, for all U.S. citizens between the ages of 18 and 64, paid for by a new tax on automation. Yes, that means you and everyone you know would get another $1,000/month every month from the U.S. government, no questions asked. You could use that money to pay down debt, start a business, go back to school, or shop at local boutiques. For more information, visit our campaign's UBI explainer.
  