
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Omaha, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Nebraska families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Nebraska the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program protected 300,000 Nebraska jobs by providing over $3.4 billion worth of loans to over 44,000 Nebraska businesses.
Over 900,000 Nebraskans received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $1.6 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing up to $1.25 billion worth of aid to the state and more than $225 million to 2,359 health care providers in Nebraska.

Nebraska businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership:

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Nebraska workers and businesses.
In the last 5 months, Nebraska added 55,000 jobs back following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus. The state's unemployment rate fell from 8.7% to 3.5%.
Nebraska added 19,900 new jobs between President Trump's election and February 2020, including 4,600 construction jobs and 2,100 manufacturing jobs.
Before China unleashed the coronavirus on the world, Nebraska's unemployment rate had fallen to just 2.9%. The average unemployment rate during the Obama-Biden administration was 3.8%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to create over 8,400 new Nebraska jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 44 Nebraska communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Nebraska's economy:

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Nebraska's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports $3.5 billion annually in goods to Canada and Mexico.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports over 82,000 jobs in Nebraska.
President Trump is defending Nebraska farmers and agriculture producers from China's unfair tariffs by providing more than $965 million in direct USDA payments.

But Joe Biden's radical, far-left agenda will decimate Nebraska workers and families:

The terrible trade deals that Biden supported during his 44 years as a career politician in Washington killed Nebraska jobs.

Nebraska lost 3,200 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden voted for.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 14,200 Nebraska jobs.
Nebraska lost 5,700 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.


Biden's radical energy policies and promise to "end fossil fuel" would devastate Nebraska workers and businesses.

The oil, gas, and coal industries support more than 82,000 jobs in Nebraska and contribute more than $9 billion to the state's economy each year.
Over 68% of Nebraska homes are heated by natural gas, fuel oil, or propane – fuels that Joe Biden wants to eliminate.


Biden's government-run health care proposal endangers the private health insurance plans that nearly 1.16 million Nebraskans rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 17 of Nebraska's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.



  