
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Our concern about character and ethics is one of the great strengths of our Nation. In 1994, America celebrates the continuing creation of and support for programs that, by definition, are character-building—from our proud military units and law enforcement groups to our new National Service program, AmeriCorps. As we seek to instill important values in a new generation of Americans, we must redouble our efforts to improve student learning, responsibility, and sense of belonging. We must revitalize the American ideal of community if our schools are to achieve their full potential. Adults, children, teachers—all of us must set an example. All of us can make a new beginning.
Schools need to emphasize the fundamentals: building character and creating a stronger sense of self-worth. The process of building moral values begins with the family, and we must all aid parents by demonstrating to our young people that hard work, honesty, and responsibility are essential in all of our endeavors. Passage of the "Goals 2000: Educate America Act" will, in the years ahead, give parents, teachers, and concerned citizens in every local school district the opportunity to come together to define what they want their schools to achieve for their children, not just through high academic standards, but also through setting high standards of compassion, understanding, and community involvement. New civic standards addressing the entire community, in addition to voluntary national standards, will serve as catalysts in this process, helping to better educate students to be more responsible citizens in the years to come.
To recognize the importance of character and to focus national attention on character building, the Congress, by Public Law 103–301, has designated October 16 through October 22, 1994, as "National Character Counts Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this commemoration.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 16 through October 22, 1994 as National Character Counts Week. I call upon the people of the United States, government officials, educators, and volunteers, to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  