
    The President's Campaign Schedule 
Q. Sir, why don't more candidates want to be seen in public with you, like Mr. Fetterman?
The President. They're—what are you talking about?
Q. Tim Ryan in Ohio said he doesn't want you there. Warnock said—he wouldn't say. Do you think they're making a mistake?
The President. No. There have been about 16 there that I've already gone in for yet, and a lot more have asked, another 20 or so. So I'm going to be doing it.
2022 Congressional Elections 
Q. Mr. President, is your party going to hold the Senate?
The President. I think so. [Laughter] But it ain't over until it's over.
National Economy 
Q. Do you feel like, sir, the economic message—your economic message is resonating with voters in these key States?
The President. Well, we'll soon find out. You have to ask these folks right here.
Customer. Don't ask us. Don't ask us.
The President. Fire rescue, right?
Customer. Don't ask us. [Laughter]
The President. Anyway, thank you.
Q. Why aren't you doing more rallies, sir?
Bipartisanship 
Q. So if it does come to that, do you think you'll be able to work with the Republicans if they're the ones in control of the Congress? You've been saying you want to be a bipartisan kind of figure in the country.
The President. Well, I've been able to do that. I've gotten—I got a lot of bipartisan stuff passed you guys never thought I'd get passed.
Ukraine/2022 Congressional Elections 
Q. Are you worried about Ukraine aid when Republicans take charge of the House?
The President. Yes, I am worried about that, because they said they'll cut it.
2022 Congressional Elections 
Q. Sir, do you have any plans to go to Nevada or Georgia in the coming weeks?
The President. Pardon me?
Q. To Nevada or Georgia.
The President. Both the Congressmen asked me to go out. I don't know if I'm going to be able to get out in Nevada. And in Georgia, they asked me to come down. We're trying to work it out now.
The President's Campaign Schedule 
Q. Are you going to go next week?
The President. I don't know where I'm going. I've got about 16, 18 requests around the country, so I don't know who's going where. I get told.
2022 Congressional Elections 
Q. How are you feeling about the election in general?
The President. I'm feeling good.
Q. You're feeling good?
The President. I'm feeling good.
These guys, all they want to do is eat their lunch.
  