
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate James A. McDevitt to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Washington. McDevitt is currently a Partner with Preston, Gates and Ellis in Spokane, Washington. From 1977 to 1994, he was Senior Partner and then Managing Partner of Reed and Geisa in Spokane, and from 1975 to 1977, he served as Assistant Attorney General in the State of Washington's Office of the Attorney General. McDevitt retired this year from the Washington Air National Guard as a Brigadier General after thirty years of service, and he was a member of the U.S. Air Force from 1965 to 1971. He received a Bachelor's degree from the University of Washington and both a J. D. and M. B. A. from Gonzaga University.
The President intends to nominate Johnny Keane Sutton to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Texas. Sutton has served at the Department of Justice since January as Associate Deputy Attorney General, and from 1995 to 2000, he served as the Criminal Justice Policy Director in the Office of Governor George W. Bush, State of Texas. Before joining the Governor's Office, Sutton was an Assistant District Attorney in the Harris County District Attorney's Office from 1987 to 1995. He received both an undergraduate and law degree from the University of Texas.
The President intends to nominate Richard S. Thompson to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia. Thompson has been a Partner with McNatt, Greene and Thompson in Vidalia, Georgia, since 1995, and from 1991 to 1994, he was a Partner with Andrew, Threlkeld and Thompson in Vidalia. He earlier practiced with Newton, Smith, Durden Kaufold and McIntyre in Vidalia, and Franklin and Taulbee in Statesboro. Thompson served from 1986 to 1988, as an Assistant Attorney General in Georgia State Attorney General's Office and from 1983 to 1986, as an Assistant District Attorney in the Douglas County District Attorney's Office. Thompson received both undergraduate and law degrees from Mercer University.
  