
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the endorsement of Ohio State House Representative Shannon Jones from the 67th House District in Ohio. Representative Jones joins previously announced State Senator Kevin Coughlin in endorsing Governor Romney from Ohio.
"Governor Romney is a dedicated leader who understands the needs of everyday Americans," said Representative Jones. "Like many Ohioians, he believes we need to bring conservative change to Washington by reducing government spending, keeping taxes low, and governing with the highest ethical standards. Unlike any other candidate, Governor Romney has laid out a comprehensive strategy to prevent a nuclear Iran. He understands that the best ally for peace is a strong America and he is the best choice to keep us safe from the threat of terrorist sponsored regimes."
Governor Romney said, "I am grateful to have State Representative Jones' support. She is a dedicated leader and an active member of her community, constantly working to improve the lives of her constituents. She will be an important member of my team in Ohio, making sure voters know my vision to create a stronger economy, stronger military and stronger families."
Background On State Representative Shannon Jones:
State Representative Jones Is Serving Her First Term Representing The 67th House District In The Ohio House Of Representatives. She is currently the Chair of the Joint Legislative Committee on Medicaid Reform and Technology Committee. Shannon also serves as the Vice Chair of the House Public Utilities Committee and as Vice Chair of Health & Human Services Subcommittee of the Finance Committee. She is also a member of the House Health and Criminal Justice Committees. Prior to her election into the Ohio House, Shannon served as district director, press secretary, chief-of-staff to U.S. Congressman Steve Chabot (OH-1) and was regional director for U.S. Senator Mike DeWine (OH). She has been active in her community as a member of the Springboro Chamber of Commerce, Springboro Area Historical Society and served on the Boards of Dayton Right to Life and Talbert House, a community-based drug and alcohol corrections non-profit.
Representative Jones currently lives in Springboro with her husband, Russell, and their two children, Jake and Anna.
  