
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals, appoint one individual and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate John F. Clark, of Virginia, to be Director of the United States Marshals Service. Mr. Clark, a 22 year veteran of the United States Marshal Service, presently serves as the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia. Prior to this, he served as Chief of the Internal Affairs Division and Chief of the International Fugitive Investigations Divisions. Earlier in his career, he was a member of the United States Capitol Police and the United States Border Patrol. Mr. Clark received his bachelor's degree from Syracuse University.
The President intends to nominate George W. Foresman, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for Preparedness at the Department of Homeland Security. This position was previously titled Under Secretary for Information Analysis and Infrastructure Protection. Mr. Foresman presently serves as Virginia's Assistant to the Governor for Commonwealth Preparedness, where he previously served as Deputy. He joined the state government in 1985 and has more than 20 years of public safety experience both at the response and executive management levels. From 1999 to 2003, he served as a member and vice-chair of the Advisory Panel to Assess Domestic Response Capabilities for Terrorism Involving Weapons of Mass Destruction. Mr. Foresman received his bachelor's degree from the Virginia Military Institute.
The President intends to nominate Paul J. McNulty, of Virginia, to be Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Mr. McNulty presently serves as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia. Prior to this, he served as Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Mr. McNulty has also served as the Justice Department's Director of Policy and Chief Spokesman. Earlier in his career, he was Chief Counsel and Director of Legislative Operations for the Majority Leader of the U.S. House of Representatives. He also served as Chief Counsel to the House Subcommittee on Crime. Mr. McNulty received his bachelor's degree from Grove City College and his JD from Capital University School of Law.
The President intends to designate Paul J. McNulty, of Virginia, to be Acting Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice.
The President intends to appoint General Peter Pace, USMC of New Jersey, to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the American National Red Cross, for a term of three years.
  