
    We oppose efforts from Democrats to raid Medicare to fund socialism, robbing seniors of their benefits.President Donald J. Trump
CONGRESSIONAL DEMOCRATS LIED ABOUT YOUR HEALTHCARE BEFORE: Democrats made false promises to sell Americans on Obamacare. 

Democrats told Americans if "you like your plan, you can keep it."

4.7 million Americans saw their plans canceled in Obamacare's first year.


Democrats told Americans they could keep their doctor if they liked them.

President Obama admitted families would have to "make choices" to keep their doctor.


President Obama promised families that Obamacare would cut $2,500 in premiums.

Average individual market premiums more than doubled from 2013 to 2017.



THEY ARE LYING NOW: Just like they did with Obamacare, Democrats will say anything to sell a radical Government takeover of your healthcare that they call "Medicare for All." 

Democrats like Chuck Schumer are trying to hide that "Medicare for All" would end private insurance, claiming it is "not true."

Senator Schumer should read Bernie Sanders' legislation, which states, "It shall be unlawful for— (1) a private health insurer to sell health insurance coverage that duplicates the benefits provided under this Act..."
The House Democrats' bill states, "It is unlawful for a private health insurer to sell health insurance coverage that duplicates the benefits provided under this Act."
Americans would have no choice in their own insurer and be forced onto Medicare.


Democrats are claiming seniors would not lose benefits under "Medicare for All."

In reality, popular Medicare Advantage plans enjoyed by more than 20 million seniors would be outlawed under the Democrat plan.


Congressional Democrats are telling American seniors "Medicare for All" is not a threat, yet their radical plan comes with a price tag that would jeopardize seniors' benefits.

Their plan rations healthcare with additional and stricter government price controls.
Their plan requires large payment cuts to doctors and hospitals, leading to hospital closures, fewer doctors, and less care for seniors.
This would not be the first time the Democrats abandoned our seniors, having cut Medicare spending by $800 billion.



GOVERNMENT TAKEOVER: Democrats are proposing radical Government takeover of healthcare that would devastate the future of our country. 

With an obscene $32 trillion in ten years price tag, even significant tax increases would not pay for the Congressional Democrats' Government healthcare takeover.
The Democrats' radical Government takeover would destroy America's healthcare system, put Washington bureaucrats in charge, and leave Americans with no real choice in coverage.

Quality healthcare will plummet and wait times will skyrocket.
Private competition would be eliminated.
Medical innovation would be decimated, depriving patients of lifesaving cures.


In a telling show of his lack of respect for American taxpayers, Senator Schumer did not even deny their plan would use taxpayer money to fund Government healthcare for illegal aliens.

  