
    On Wednesday, October 26th, First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Providence, Rhode Island to visit Rhode Island College's Feinstein School of Education and Human Development, joined by Governor Daniel McKee and First Lady Susan McKee. This visit continues the First Lady's efforts to recruit, respect, and retain educators, and highlight the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to support and strengthen the teaching profession across the country. The First Lady will also attend and deliver remarks at a political event for Governor Daniel McKee and the Rhode Island State Democratic Party.
At 12:30 PM ET, the First Lady will arrive at Rhode Island T.F. Green International Airport in Warwick, RI. This arrival will be open press and pooled for TV. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Monday, October 24th at 6:00 PM ET.
At 1:15 PM ET, the First Lady, Governor McKee, and First Lady McKee will visit Rhode Island College. While on campus, the First Lady, Governor McKee, and First Lady McKee will meet with undergraduate students participating in a networking event for students interested in pursuing career paths in education, hosted by the College's Career Development Center and Handshake, a career network for college students and recent alumni. Following the networking event, the First Lady will deliver remarks to students, faculty, and campus administrators. This visit will be open press with limited capacity, and pooled for TV. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Monday, October 24th at 6:00 PM ET.
At 3:15 PM ET, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at a political event for Governor Daniel McKee and the Rhode Island State Democratic Party. This event will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, please RSVP to alana@governordanmckee.com by Monday, October 24th at 6:00 PM.
At 7:00 PM ET, the First Lady will deliver prerecorded remarks at Handshake's nationwide virtual event to help undergraduate students learn about pathways in the field of education, including teachers, counselors, school mental health specialists, and school psychologists. This event is one of the commitments from recruitment and job platforms announced by the Biden Administration to make it easier for states and school districts to source, recruit, and hire job seeking teachers and school professionals, and to help more Americans find jobs in education. This virtual event will be open press. Media can register through Handshake HERE.
  