
    Today, President Donald J. Trump today announced his second wave of United States Marshal nominations. The United States Marshal performs the essential functions of protecting the Federal judiciary, apprehending fugitives, transporting prisoners, and protecting witnesses. These six candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve as the United States Marshal for their respective jurisdictions:
If confirmed, Frank M. Coffman of Oklahoma will serve as the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Oklahoma. Frank M. Coffman is currently a Senior Special Agent for the U.S. Secret Service, where he has served since 1998. Over his 18-year career with the U.S. Secret Service, he has supported the Muskogee, Chicago, Houston, Tulsa, and Oklahoma City field offices. As a shift leader from 2003 to 2007, Mr. Coffman managed President George W. Bush's security detail. Prior to joining the Secret Service, he served as a police officer with the Norman Police Department and a U.S. Probation Officer in the Northern District of Oklahoma. From 1986 to 1988, he served as an Armor Officer, 1st Lieutenant in the United States Army. Mr. Coffman holds a B.S. in political science from Oklahoma State University and an M.S. in criminal justice from Northeastern State University.
If confirmed, Thomas M. Griffin, Jr. of South Carolina will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of South Carolina. Mr. Griffin is currently the Resident Agent in Charge for the U.S. Secret Service Greenville, South Carolina Office, a position he has held since 2010. In his 20-year career with the U.S. Secret Service, he has supported the Greenville, South Carolina and Newark, New Jersey field offices, as well as the Presidential Protection Division in Washington, D.C. and the James J. Rowley Training Center in Beltsville, Maryland. Prior to joining the U.S. Secret Service, Mr. Griffin served in the Richland County Sheriff's Department from 1985 to 1996 as a Sheriff's Deputy, Detective, and Detective Sergeant. He holds a B.S. in criminal justice from the University of South Carolina.
If confirmed, Mark S. James of Missouri will serve as the United States Marshal for the Western District of Missouri. Mr. James is currently the Chancellor for the Metropolitan Community College of Kansas City, a position he has held since 2010. In 2005, he was appointed by Governor Matt Blunt to be Director of the Missouri Department of Public Safety, and he served in this capacity until 2009. Prior to this appointment, Mr. James served the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms & Explosives from 1987 to 2005, and the Missouri State Highway Patrol from 1978 to 1987. He holds a B.S. in criminal justice and administration from the University of Central Missouri and an M.S. in strategic intelligence from the National Defense Intelligence University.
If confirmed, Johnny Lee Kuhlman of Oklahoma will serve as the United States Marshal for the Western District of Oklahoma. Mr. Kuhlman is currently the Deputy Chief of the Investigations Bureau for the Oklahoma City Police Department. He began his law enforcement career in 1980 as a patrol officer with the Houston Police Department. In 1983, he joined the Oklahoma City Police Department as a patrol officer, and has risen through the ranks and served in almost every capacity over the course of his 34-year career with the department. Mr. Kuhlman holds an A.D. in police science technology from Oklahoma State University and a B.S. in organizational leadership from Southern Nazarene University.
If confirmed, Daniel C. Mosteller of South Dakota will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of South Dakota. Mr. Mosteller was the Superintendent of the South Dakota Highway Patrol from 2003 to 2010. He joined the South Dakota Highway Patrol as a State Trooper in 1983, and served the agency for 27 years until his retirement. Since retiring, Mr. Mosteller has worked in security for the South Dakota Legislature during the legislative session and served as the law enforcement coordinator for the U.S. Attorney's Office in the District of South Dakota. Mr. Mosteller graduated from the University of South Dakota with a Bachelor's Degree in earth science and a minor in criminal justice.
If confirmed, Gary G. Schofield of Nevada will serve as the United States Marshal for the District of Nevada. Mr. Schofield currently serves as Senior Vice President of Global Business Development for Secured Communications, LLC. He retired in 2017 from his position as Deputy Chief of the Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Department after 32 years with the department. Mr. Schofield served in the U.S. Air Force from 1980 to 1991. He holds a B.S. in human services from Thomas Edison State University and an M.A. in administration of criminal justice from the University of Alaska at Fairbanks.
  