
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 6
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
The President and his family met with Pope John Paul II in the Residence.
October 9
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison. The President met in the Oval Office with Manny Mota, an outfielder for the Los Angeles Dodgers professional baseball team, to congratulate him on breaking the major league record for pinch hits.
The President participated in a briefing on the administration's programs and policies given for civic and community leaders from Iowa in the East Room at the White House.
October 10
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—Gen. Bernard W. Rogers, Supreme Allied Commander, Europe, and Commander in Chief of U.S. Forces in Europe.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on energy legislation and the windfall profits tax given for civic and community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
October 11
The White House announced that the President and Mrs. Carter have accepted the invitation of Prime Minister Clark to visit Canada on November 9 and 10. President Carter will be accompanied by a party of senior officials. During the visit the President will address a joint meeting of the Senate and the House of Commons.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 and 1978 annual reports of the Civil Service Commission.
October 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator William V. Roth, Jr., of Delaware;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Joseph M.A.H. Luns, Secretary-General of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors John Tzounis of Greece, Enriquillo Antonio del Rosario Ceballos of the Dominican Republic, Raoul Schoumaker of Belgium, Joshua Luyimbazi Zake of Uganda, and Ricardo Crespo Zaldumbide of Ecuador.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the arms limitation treaty given for community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
  