
    Instead of telling Sunshine State voters the truth yesterday, Biden spread falsehoods and outright lies
BIDEN: "The President's proposal to eliminate the tax you pay when you get your paycheck for Social Security without any means by which to replace it. The actuary at Social Security said Social Security will be bankrupt by 2023."
FACT: President Trump's payroll tax deferral does not defund social security, and this attack by Biden and his allies has been debunked.

The Washington Post's Fact Checker gave this attack by the Biden campaign "Four Pinocchios," saying "there are no planned cuts" to Social Security.
President Trump has said he wants to make the payroll tax deferral permanent next year, making this deferral a cut "without in any way, shape, or form hurting Social Security." 
The President has said he would use the Treasury Department's general fund to reimburse Social Security's trust fund, ensuring zero impact on our nation's seniors.
Biden's attack is not only false, it is hypocritical.
In 2011, Biden wrote an op-ed touting a bill Obama signed to cut the payroll tax, specifically saying it was "misinformation" to suggest a payroll tax cut hurt Social Security's solvency.
President Trump has promised to always protect Social Security, unlike Biden who bragged in the 1990s about his efforts to 'freeze' benefits.

BIDEN: "Some economists are calling this, what they call a K-shaped recovery. It means those at the top they keep going up, their income. But everyone from the middle and lower income, it keeps going down. It keeps getting worse."
FACT: America is seeing an unprecedented V-shaped recovery that is benefitting all Americans.

The economy has added back 11.4 million jobs over the last five months, half of all the jobs lost due to the pandemic.
It took 30 months – two and a half years – to add back the same percentage of jobs during the Biden-led "recovery."
The unemployment rate fell to 7.9 percent in September, a level that economists predicted we wouldn't see even by the end of 2021.
Retail sales and consumer spending have both rebounded strongly.
Consumer confidence in September posted the biggest gain in 17 years.
Weekly jobless claims have been trending downward, beating expectations and reaching its lowest level since mid-March.
American manufacturing has grown for five straight months.?
The stock market has rebounded, with both the S&P 500 and the Nasdaq recently achieving new record highs.

BIDEN: "We let, 18,000 people were, got clemency."
FACT: Biden is grossly inflating the number of pardons and commutations that were granted during the Obama-Biden Administration.

Under the eight years of the Obama-Biden Administration, 1,927 petitions for pardons and commutations were approved, just a tenth of what Biden claimed.
Nearly 20,500 petitions for clemency were denied.
Among those given clemency by the Biden Administration were terrorist bomber Oscar Lopez Rivera and national security leaker Chelsea Manning.
By comparison, the First Step Act – signed by President Trump – is reuniting more families than Obama-Biden clemencies ever did:
More than 3,400 prisoners have had their sentence reduced under the First Step Act.
More than 1,700 prisoners have seen compassionate releases or reduction in sentences.
More than 1,000 elderly prisoners have been granted home confinement.
Biden was the "architect" of mass incarceration that put countless black Americans behind bars for nonviolent crimes.
Biden repeatedly bragged that his name was on "every major crime bill" that Congress passed.

BIDEN: "[President Trump] said 'there are very fine people on both sides.'"
FACT: Biden's vicious claim is completely false and has previously been debunked.

President Trump has repeatedly and specifically denounced white supremacists and racist hate groups. 
March 2016: Asked if he would denounce white supremacists, then-Candidate Trump said "of course." 
August 2017: "Racism is evil. And those who cause violence in its name are criminals and thugs, including the KKK, neo-Nazis, white supremacists, and other hate groups that are repugnant to everything we hold dear as Americans." 
August 2017: "The neo-Nazis and the white nationalists ... they should be condemned totally." 
August 2019: "In one voice, our nation must condemn racism, bigotry, and white supremacy. These sinister ideologies must be defeated. Hate has no place in America." 

NBC NEWS' LESTER HOLT: "Well can I follow up with that a little bit? I heard you've mentioned this idea of a national mandate, you've mentioned that before, for a mask, but what power does a President have to make that happen?" BIDEN: "He doesn't."
FACT: Biden has flip-flopped on a national mask mandate, now admitting that he could not impose a national mask mandate after screaming for weeks that President Trump should impose one.

In an August 13 speech, Biden advocated for a nationwide mask mandate "starting immediately."
At his DNC acceptance speech on August 20, Biden called for a national mask mandate.
On September 6, Biden told WTVJ that he would implement a nationwide mask mandate.
On September 16, Biden argued that the President has the legal authority to mandate wearing face masks nationally and criticized President Trump for not doing so.

BIDEN: "If we can spend money giving tax breaks for a racehorse, we can give tax breaks for the kinds of things we are out there doing, three martini lunch. God almighty, why can't we in fact give a tax break for people to have free access to health care if you're in the middle of a COVID crisis?"
FACT: Biden himself repeatedly supported a federal tax break for racehorses.

Biden voted for the 1981 tax law that shortened the depreciation schedule of race horses.
Biden voted for the 1986 tax law that reduced the depreciation rates for race horses.
In 2008, Biden voted for the 2008 farm bill which contained an extension of the race horse tax break.
Biden specifically defended his vote for the race horse tax break provision, calling it "a responsible compromise."
The Obama-Biden administration twice extended the race horse tax provision.

  