
    MANCHESTER, NH - Across New Hampshire signals of Hillary Clinton's growing support continue and today New Hampshire for Hillary announced that State Senator Iris Estabrook, Senate Vice President for Policy, will be the seventh Granite State Senator to endorse Hillary for President.
"Senator Clinton will be a president who will make sure our government works for American families again," said Senator Estabrook of Durham. "This is a decision that I did not take lightly, and it is clear to me that she has the deep conviction to make sure the country moves in the direction it needs to go. I fully support Hillary's agenda to return to a government that works for the people. "
Senator Estabrook will serve as a Co-Chair of Educators for Hillary and will play an active role in the campaign reaching out to the education community and developing policy. She is currently serving her third term in the State Senate and has been prominent and outspoken advocate for early childhood education and a strong critic of the No Child Left Behind Act. She is the sponsor of the Granite State Scholars program, which created a joint partnership between the state and New Hampshire colleges to provide scholarships to students who qualified.
"Iris is passionate about early education and has spent her life working on behalf of New Hampshire families," Clinton said. "Her perspective and experience will be a great help to my campaign as I continue my conversation with Granite State educators, families and students throughout the state."
Estabrook joins previously announced supporters Senate President Sylvia Larsen of Concord and Senators Betsi DeVries of Manchester; Maggie Hassan of Exeter; Molly Kelly of Keene; Deb Reynolds of Plymouth and Kathy Sgambati of Tilton.
"Hillary cares about hardworking people and she has the experience to enact the reform this country needs from strengthening public education to providing affordable healthcare for every American and ensuring stronger security at home and abroad," Estabrook said.
Senator Estabrook was first elected to the New Hampshire Senate in November 2002. Previously, Estabrook served for three terms in the New Hampshire House of Representatives, where she was Assistant Democratic Leader for Education Policy.
In the New Hampshire Senate, Estabrook is the Chairwoman of the Education Committee and the Health and Human Services Committee. The senator is a former elementary school teacher and past director of the University of New Hampshire Child Care Resource and Referral Program. This session, Iris was the prime sponsor of Senate Bill 101 which increased funding for alternative education and vocational programs in school districts.
  