
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, former Michigan Lieutenant Governor Connie Binsfeld, announced her endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney. Joining her in making today's endorsement is her husband, John Binsfeld.
"Governor Romney is the leader our country needs," said Lt. Governor Binsfeld. "He is committed to strengthening our economy and adding jobs to the workforce, critical issues for the people of Michigan. Additionally, Governor Romney has a proven record on the issues facing our nation. He'll keep taxes low, cut government spending, and reform healthcare. With Governor Romney, Americans know they have an exceptional leader with a proven record of results."
Governor Romney added, "I am honored to have the support of former Lt. Governor Binsfeld and her husband, John. She is a leader who understands that those elected to public service must act with the highest ethical standards. She shares my passion for strong families, creating jobs, and keeping more money in the pockets of hardworking families. I look forward to joining them on the campaign trail in Michigan."
Governor Romney has the support of more Republican elected and grassroots officials in Michigan than any other Republican presidential candidate. Having grown up in Michigan, he has a unique understanding of the issues facing those living in the state. His proven record of leadership demonstrates that he is the candidate who can best solve the challenges facing our nation.
Background On Lieutenant Governor Connie Binsfeld:
Connie Binsfeld Served As Lt. Governor Under John Engler From 1991 Until 1999. She is the only female in Michigan history to hold a leadership position in the House, Senate, and the Executive Office. As Lt. Governor, she focused on both child and domestic abuse. Binsfeld served in the State House of Representatives from 1974 until 1982, when she then was elected to the State Senate and served two terms. Former Lt. Governor Connie Binsfeld and her husband, John, currently reside in Burdickville, Michigan.
  