
    Urbandale, Iowa - Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann's campaign today announced the members of its Iowa staff assembled to lead the organization through the state's first-in-the-nation caucuses. Campaign officials also appointed Iowa political veteran Eric Woolson as State Campaign Manager.
"We have a strong, experienced organization in place that is equipped to build upon Michele Bachmann's historic victory in the Republican Party of Iowa Straw Poll this summer," said national campaign manager Keith Nahigian. "Eric is the perfect person to lead our team to victory on caucus day."
The campaign is proud to announce the following staff members:

Chris Dorr — Northwest Iowa
Emma Aquino-Nemecek of Mount Vernon — Northeast Iowa
Mark Doland of Oskaloosa — Southeast Iowa
Tony Eastman of Indianola — Central and parts of southwest Iowa
Barb Heki — Home-school coalition director
Peter Waldron — Faith leader
Drew Klein — Faith leader

The campaign has a total of 10 full-time professionals in place, including previously announced members:

Sen. Kent Sorenson — State Chairman
Sen. Brad Zaun — State Co-Chairman
Eric Woolson — Newly appointed State Campaign Manager
Wes Enos — Newly appointed Deputy State Campaign Manager

Woolson is an Iowa political veteran who managed former Arkansas Gov. Mike Huckabee's 2008 Iowa caucus campaign.
Doland is an ordained minister who has served as a precinct captain for Mike Huckabee's 2008 presidential campaign. He was the pastor coalition director for the 2010 Bob Vander Plaats for Governor campaign, a candidate recruiter for the Iowa Family Policy Center Action and campaign manager for former state Rep. Danny Carroll. Doland currently serves as the county co-chair for Mahaska County Republican Central Committee.
Nemecek's extensive political activism includes her roles as an election volunteer coordinator for the National Rifle Association, chair of the National Federation of Filipino American Republicans, past president of the All Nations Association, Linn County chair for the Matthew Schultz for Secretary of State campaign, and Second Congressional Director representative for 2008 presidential candidates Sam Brownback and John McCain. She also ran for state representative in 2006 and 2008.
Eastman, a former youth minister who has also worked in the financial services sector, was a volunteer on then-state Rep. Kent Sorensen's winning 2010 campaign for the Iowa Senate. Dorr worked for the Ron Paul campaign in 2008, worked on Sorenson's 2010 campaign and served as his legislative assistant this year.
Heki recently worked as a grassroots strategist on the state of Iowa for Freedom, the successful campaign to remove three Iowa Supreme Court justices. A board member of the Network of Iowa Christian Home Educators (NICHE), she was a key volunteer with the Huckabee and Vander Plaats campaigns, focused on recruiting home-school voters. She also is the volunteer Iowa director of ParentalRights.org.
Waldron is an author and a frequent guest on radio and television programs. He has worked seven presidential campaigns since 1980.
Klein has worked with the Iowa Faith & Freedom Coalition since 2008 helping them with various statewide initiatives including caucus training and legislative efforts. In that time, he has been involved with the Christian community organizing volunteer efforts in more than 13 state legislative races across the state.
Sorenson is serving in a full-time role but state Senate rules preclude lawmakers from being paid by the campaign.
  