
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of New Hampshire State Senator David Boutin (R-Hooksett). Senator Boutin joins State Senators Jeb Bradley (R-Wolfeboro), Gary Lambert (R-Nashua), Jack Barnes (R-Raymond), Chuck Morse (R-Salem), Jim Rausch (R-Derry) and Tom Deblois (R-Manchester) in supporting Governor Romney's candidacy.
"David Boutin has been a tireless advocate for the traditional New Hampshire principles of lower taxes, limited government and less spending," said Romney. "I am honored to have earned his support and pleased that he has agreed to join my campaign to create jobs and grow our economy."
"Mitt Romney understands that our country can't continue spending more than we take in. Mitt recognizes the extraordinary challenges facing our country and he has laid out bold plans to cut spending, jump start our economy and create jobs," said Senator Boutin. "As a fiscally responsible governor, Mitt balanced budgets and as successful businessman he turned around struggling enterprises. He has the executive experience, the skills and the fiscally conservative values needed to defeat President Obama and restore fiscal sanity to Washington."
Background On State Senator David Boutin:
Senator David Boutin was elected to the New Hampshire Senate during a special election held in February of 2010. Nine months later, he went on to win a full term in November of 2010. He represents District 16 which covers Bow, Dunbarton, Candia, Manchester Wards 1, 2 and 12 and his hometown of Hooksett. Boutin previously served as a state Representative serving Manchester Ward 1 from 1996-2000 and then returned to the legislature winning a special election to represent the town of Hooksett in the House of Representatives from 2008 to 2010.
A leader in his community, Boutin served on the Hooksett Town Council, Zoning Board and Heritage Commission. He also has served on the Manchester Airport Access Study Task Force, the Manchester Planning Board, and the Historic District Commission. From 1984-1986, he served on the Salem Budget Committee as a resident of that town.
  