
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Nearly a millennium has passed since Leif Erikson set out on his voyage to explore North America, a land then thought to be no more than an uncharted wilderness across the waters. Filled with the same spirit of discovery that characterized the travels of his father, Eric the Red, who sailed from Norway to Iceland to Greenland, the journey of Leif Erikson remains one of history's greatest legends. To commemorate the life of this bold adventurer and to recognize the generations of Nordic Americans who have followed in his footsteps, we celebrate Leif Erikson Day, 1994.
Leaving behind the ice-covered mountains of Greenland, Erikson helped to set the stage for centuries of trans-Atlantic exchange between his father's native Norway and the people of the New World. Today, the United States and the Nordic countries of Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Sweden, and Norway, enjoy cordial friendships and are productive partners in fostering democracy and expanding trade. Carrying forward the ideals of their ancestors—ideals of liberty, human dignity, and self-determination—these nations stand with the United States in representing the freedom to which individuals around the world aspire.
The sons and daughters of Scandinavia who immigrated to this country in past centuries brought with them that abiding passion for justice and equality, and their determination to build a better life for themselves and their children has enriched our Nation immeasurably. For the tremendous contributions they have made to our society, and for the many wonderful traditions that their descendants continue to uphold, Americans across the country join in recognizing this special day every year.
In honor of Leif Erikson—son of Iceland, grandson of Norway—and of the vibrant Nordic American culture that continues to grace our Nation, the Congress, by joint resolution approved on September 2, 1964 (Public Law 88–566), has authorized and requested the President to designate October 9 of each year as "Leif Erikson Day."
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 1994, as Leif Erikson Day. I encourage all Americans to observe this occasion by learning more about our rich Nordic-American heritage.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  