
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Joseph Manso of New York, to be accorded the Rank of Ambassador while performing the duties as the United States Representative to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
Joseph Manso, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, is Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of International Organizations at the Department of State. He was previously Director of the Office of United Nations Political Affairs in the Bureau of International Organizations and Director of the Office of Regional European Security Affairs in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs. Mr. Manso also taught at the National War College and was Director of Americas Programs in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs. Overseas, Mr. Manso served as Deputy Permanent Representative and Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Mission to North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) in Brussels, Deputy Chief of Staff to the NATO Secretary General, and Director of International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs Programs at the United States embassies in Iraq and Bolivia. Mr. Manso earned a B.A. from Fordham College and J.D. from Fordham Law School. He speaks Spanish and French.
Jenny A. McGee of Texas, to be an Associate Administrator for Relief, Response and Resilience, United States Agency for International Development. 
Jenny McGee completed a 31-year career in the United States Air Force as an intelligence officer. Ms. McGee has commanded operational intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance units around the globe, and she has held key positions in joint and Air Force organizations, including the National Security Council and the Office of the Secretary of Defense. She has senior-level staff and deployed experience, with recent duties at Headquarters United States Air Forces in Europe and Africa, United States Central Command Air and Space Operations Center, and National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency. Ms. McGee was born in Seoul, Republic of Korea, and has had military assignments around the world. She is a graduate of Purdue University and holds an MBA from the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University, as well as master's degrees from the National War College, Naval Command and Staff College, and Joint Military Intelligence College.
Dorothy Shea of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lebanese Republic.
Dorothy Shea, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the Deputy Chief of Mission of the United States Embassy in Cairo, Egypt. Previously, she had served as Deputy Principal Officer at the United States Consulate General in Jerusalem, as Director of the Office of Assistance for Asia and the Near East in the Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, and as a Pearson Fellow with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Ms. Shea was also the Political/Economic Counselor at the United States Embassy in Tunis, Tunisia, a Political Officer at the United States Embassy in Tel Aviv, Israel, a Director for Democracy and Human Rights at the National Security Council, and a Special Assistant to the Special Envoy for War Crimes Issues in the Department of State. Ms. Shea earned a B.A. from the University of Virginia, M.S. from Georgetown University, and M.S. from the National War College. She speaks French and Arabic.
John Joseph Sullivan of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Russian Federation.
John Sullivan currently serves as Deputy Secretary of State, a position he has held since May 2017. He also served in April 2018 as Acting Secretary of State. Earlier in his career, Deputy Secretary Sullivan served as Deputy Secretary of Commerce and held senior positions at the Departments of Justice, Defense, and Commerce, advising the Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Counsel to the President on legal and policy issues. Deputy Secretary Sullivan has also had two decades of experience in private law practice, including as a partner in Mayer Brown LLP, where he was co-chair of the firm's national security practice. He served as a law clerk for Associate Justice David H. Souter of the Supreme Court of the United States and for Judge John Minor Wisdom of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. Deputy Secretary Sullivan received a bachelor's degree from Brown University and law degree from Columbia University School of Law, where he was a Harlan Fiske Stone Scholar, Teaching Fellow, and Book Reviews Editor of the Columbia Law Review.
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Steven Witkoff of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. 
  