
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted October 27
Peter J. Hurtgen, of Florida, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring August 27, 2001, vice John E. Higgins, Jr.
Wilma B. Liebman,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the remainder of the term expiring December 16, 1997, vice Margaret Browning.
Wilma B. Liebman,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 2002 (reappointment).
Withdrawn October 27
Hershel W. Gober, of Arkansas, to be Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Jesse Brown, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on July 31, 1997.
Alphonso Maldon, Jr., of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs, vice Hershel Wayne Gober, which was sent to the Senate on September 26, 1997.
Submitted October 28
Katherine L. Archuleta, of Colorado, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for the remainder of the term expiring May 19, 2000, vice LaDonna Harris, resigned.
Joseph Robert Brame III, of Virginia, to be a member of the National Labor Relations Board for the term of 5 years expiring December 16, 1999, vice John C. Truesdale.
Sallyanne Harper, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Jonathan Z. Cannon, resigned.
Hank Brown, of Colorado, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring April 6, 2000, vice Walter R. Roberts, term expired.
Penne Percy Korth, of Texas, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 2000, vice William Hybl, term expired.
Susanne T. Marshall, of Virginia, to be a member of the Merit Systems Protection Board for the term of 7 years expiring March 1, 2004, vice Antonio C. Amador, resigned.
Submitted October 31
Beverly Baldwin Martin, of Georgia, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia for the term of 4 years, vice James Lamar Wiggins.
Robert M. McNamara, Jr., of Maryland, to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency (new position).
  