
    Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson and Washington Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers
Press Conference Call
October 18, 2012
Click Here To Listen To The Entire Call   
Highlights From The "President Obama's $16 Trillion Failure" Press Conference Call:
SEN. RON JOHNSON: "Governor Romney's doing a very good job of pointing out really what's -- what has been the record of President Obama, particularly when we're talking about the debt and deficit. He's added $5.5 trillion to our nation's debt, and if he gets another four years, that debt will balloon to $20 trillion. You know, he came into office promising that he would cut the deficit in half; he hasn't done that. He actually increased that original budget deficit estimate from $1.2 trillion to $1.4 trillion followed by 1.3, 1.3, and just this year, we're going to experience another $1.1 trillion deficit. So that was you know, a campaign promise that he has utterly failed to deliver upon. And of course, the effect of all that debt -- the American Enterprise Institute has just issued a study, and they took a look at what is the cost of servicing that debt that he's racked up and what he would rack up in another term in terms of increased taxes on the middle income -- on middle income Americans. And the result is an astounding $4,000."
...
REP. CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS: "And speaking of the debt specifically, when he was campaigning, when he was first running for office he promised to cut the deficit in half by the end of his first term. And instead, what we've seen over the last four years is a President who has presided over largest deficit, record deficits in our country's history. Four years of trillion dollar deficits, that is not something that we've seen in the past, we've gone from right around 10 trillion dollars in debt to now over 16 trillion dollars in debt. That is not leaving a better country for our future, for our children. You know, I think it was about a year and a half ago, Admiral Mullen, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was asked 'What is the number one security threat that faces America,' and he responded it was the debt. The debt that we're taking on right now as a country threatens our national security, threatens the economic opportunities for our children. And as a mom and like millions of moms around the country sitting around the kitchen table trying to balance budgets, set priorities, you know we recognize that it means making tough decisions. But at a time when gas prices are going up and health insurance rates are skyrocketing, it makes it hard, but we expect our leaders to make the tough decisions, to get a budget in place at a minimum."
  