
    America has the cleanest air, the cleanest water, and a growing economy.
President Trump has taken action to preserve our climate and ensure that every American has access to the most pristine water and the cleanest air.
Joe Biden has pledged to rejoin the Paris Climate Accord and force U.S. companies and workers to accept burdensome regulations imposed by other countries that would cripple our economy and kill thousands of jobs in the middle of the economic recovery.
President Trump's common-sense, America first approach has achieved unprecedented results for our environment while creating jobs and putting U.S. workers and companies first.


In 2019, the United States led the entire world in reducing Co2 emissions.

Under President Trump, emissions of all key air pollutants have dropped, including emissions of carbon monoxide, lead, nitrogen dioxide, ozone, and sulfur dioxide.

The Trump Administration has invested over $38 billion in clean water infrastructure.

President Trump's EPA has cleaned up 109 bodies of water and awarded $20 billion for more than 4,500 clean water projects.

The EPA has cleaned up the largest number of superfund pollution sites since 2001, and is forcing the biggest polluters to pay more than ever before for cleanups.

Under President Trump, the United States has invested millions of dollars in nuclear energy technology, and billions of dollars in the first nuclear reactor to be built in the United States in three decades.

President Trump's environmentally friendly, pro-jobs agenda has improved quality of life for Americans across the country. By working with the president, West Virginia has met all national air quality standards for the first time in 42 years. 
By putting America first, President Trump has also been able to improve environmental quality for people across the world.


President Trump established the One Trillion Trees Interagency Council which aims to grow and conserve one trillion trees worldwide by 2030.

The Trump Administration unveiled a strategy to combat marine litter globally, including plastic pollution in the ocean.

President Trump will ensure that America has the cleanest air and water in the world while rolling back nonsensical regulations to allow our economy to grow stronger than ever before. While Joe Biden pledges to throw American workers under the bus to appease the world and shackle Americans with a socialist-style Green New Deal, President Trump will always put America first!
  