
    
  Endorsements from Leaders of Key February 5th State Another Sign of Thompson's Growing Momentum


McLean, VA - In another sign of Thompson's growing momentum, Senator Jim Inhofe and Congressman John Sullivan of Oklahoma today endorsed Fred Thompson for President of the United States. These endorsements today further strengthen the campaign's organization and standing in Oklahoma, a key early primary state on February 5th.
Fred Thompson stated: "I am so honored that my good friend Jim Inhofe is joining my team. We worked closely together in the United States Senate fighting for conservative principles such as lower taxes, smaller government, and a strong military. With his help, we will take our conservative message and agenda all the way from the campaign trail to the White House.
"I am also honored to have the endorsement today of Rep. John Sullivan from Oklahoma's First Congressional District. Like me, John has been a strong advocate for lower taxes and limited government, and I look forward to working closely with him in the coming months as we take our shared conservative principles directly to the American people."
Senator Jim Inhofe stated: "Even before he officially announced, I came out in support of Fred because of his tremendous experience, his leadership, and his proven record in support of conservative values. As Americans get to know Fred over the next few months, they will quickly find a man committed to winning the War on Terror and ready to finally secure our borders. They will find a man of experience who helped bring change to Congress as part of the 1994 conservative revolution. And finally, they will find, as I have, a man of deep character and principle, ready to take on the tremendous challenges facing our country today."
Congressman John Sullivan stated: "I am proud to support Senator Thompson. He is a backer of fiscally responsible spending, positive immigration reform and correcting our nation's broken health care system."
James Inhofe was first elected to the United States Senate in 1994 and was subsequently re-elected in 1996 and again in 2002. While in the Senate, Sen. Inhofe has been a strong advocate for principles of limited government and lower taxes. As the second ranking member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, Sen. Inhofe has also gained a reputation as an expert on defense and national security issues. Prior to being elected to the U.S. Senate in 1994, Sen. Inhofe was a congressman from Oklahoma's First Congressional District, mayor of Tulsa, minority leader of the Oklahoma Senate, and a member of the Oklahoma House of Representatives.
John Sullivan was elected to the U.S. Congress in 2002 to represent Oklahoma's First Congressional District. Congressman John Sullivan is a fourth generation Oklahoman, and during his time in Congress he has been a strong advocate for less government, fiscal restraint, and lower taxes. Congressman Sullivan has also been influential in the area of immigration and increasing border security. Prior to being elected to the U.S. House of Representatives, Congressman Sullivan worked as a small businessman in Tulsa in the fields of energy, transportation, real estate and investments.
  