
    Pool Reports by Debra Saunders, Las Vegas Review-Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 October 17, 2020 14:55

 In Town Pool Report #1 
?The in-town pool is riding along with the Black SUV motorcade to JBA as AF1 prepares to fly to Michigan, Wisconsin and an overnight in Las Vegas.
The President as he left via the North Portico At 2:53. He was wearing a red tie and aged at pool cameras. The motorcade took off at 2:54
Ahead of departure, Jared Kushner could be seen walking back and forth next to waiting cars as he chatted on his cell phone and took a quick selfie. He was wearing in a light ski jacket.
Later Stephen Miller could be seen heading for the cars with a bag in each hand.
The reason for the motorcade instead of Marine 1 is the WH 2020 Fall Garden Tours. It is a beautiful Fall day for it.
Your pooler has been tested for COVID and is still here. 


 October 17, 2020 15:22

 In Town Pool Report #2 
?Please forgive typo in last report. POTUS waved (not aged) at pool cameras as he left via North Portico.
There was a small crowd on 15th street as motorcade entered. Flashes of a Biden Harris sign, a friendly wave, a double fingered salute. Mostly tourists taking photos on cell phones. Stopped cars and flashing lights.
POTUS boarded AF1 at 3:19 without talking to the press.
Handing off to out-of-town pool. 




Pool Reports below by Steven Miller, The Washington Times



Sent:
Reports:




 October 17, 2020 15:21

 Print Travel Pool #1 
?Motorcade arrived at AF1 at 3:18 EDT. POTUS emerged wearing blue suits during red tie.
Boarded AF1 without addressing press.
He was accompanied by McIentee.
Wheels up soon for Muskegon, Mich. 


 October 17, 2020 17:09

 Print Travel Pool #2 
?Wheels up JBA at 3:30 pm EDT. Wheels down Muskegon, Mich., at 4:58 pm EDT.
Crowd chanted "Four more years" waiting for President Trump to exit AF1. 


 October 17, 2020 

[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 October 17, 2020 18:49

 Print Travel Pool #4 
?Spotted at rally: Jared Kushner, GOP Chair Ronna McDaniel and rocker Ted Nugent.
President Trump ended rally speech at 6:43 p.m. EDT. He then danced and gestured to crowd as the song "YMCA" played.
He gave a thumbs up to press before climbing stairs to AF1.
President Trump boarded AF1 at 6:48 p.m. EDT.
Wheels up shortly for Janesville, Wis.
Much appreciated assist by Nikki Schwartz 


 October 17, 2020 18:49

 Print Travel Pool #5 
?Wheels down 6:31 p.m. CDT at Janesville, Wisconsin.
The President is Met by greeters who boarded AF1 to greet him:
Diane Hendricks, Co-Founder and Chairwoman of ABC Supply Inc.
Gregg Kunes, CEO of Kunes Country Automotive Group
President Trump exited AF1 at 6:48p.m. CDT. He was wearing red MAGA hat.
President Trump entered Beast for short motorcade from runway to the rally site at airport. 


 October 17, 2020 21:22

 Print Travel Pool #6 
The rally in Janesville, Wis., was televised.
Here are some highlights:
The theme of the rally at Southern Wisconsin Regional Airport was "Supporting Law Enforcement." Across the back of the bleachers, Thin Blue Line flags were interspersed with U.S. flags.
On the crowd:"It's great to be back in Wisconsin with thousands of loyal, hardworking patriots."
On his supporters:"We've got the most energy in the history of politics and he's got the least."
On the economy:He said Wisconsin needs a Republican governor."You've got to open it up."
On law and order:"The most menacing aspect of the Biden-Harris agenda is their attack on law and order.""They will kill your jobs, dismantle your police department — and you have great law enforcement with us."He said Joe Biden didn't know what to say at the debate when he challenged Biden to name an endorsement from a law enforcement group."Then Chris Wallace bailed him out."He said Joe Biden also wouldn't say the words "law and order.""If he says law and order, then he loses the radical left."
On protest violence:"The lawless demonstrators — and they are all Democrat run cities and states. They are. Every one of them. They don't want to take care of law enforcement.""We saved Minneapolis. We saved Seattle," he said. "We're really saving the whole country if you think about it.""Biden will appease the rioters and looters and anarchist."He credited Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers with calling in federal law enforcement to help quell the violence in Kenosha."If I didn't get involved there wouldn't be a Kenosha."
On the impacts on African Americans:"No one is hurt more by the left-wing crusade against law enforcement is African Americans."He said murder increased this year in cities by more than 30%"We have done more for the black community than any president since Abraham Lincoln. It's true.""Criminal justice reform. I did it. Prison reform. We did it."
On gun rights:"They want to take away your Second Amendment."
On pandemic:"We're rounding the corner. You'll see it. The vaccines are incredible.""We have great therapeutics. I'm here.""I wasn't feeling good. I wasn't feeling like your president is supposed to feel. I wasn't feeling like Superman."He also said, "Biden's plan will crush Wisconsin. My plan will crush the virus." 


 October 17, 2020 21:39

 Print Travel Pool #7 
President Trump ended speech at 8:29 p.m. CDT.
He then danced and gestured to crowd as "YMCA" played.
After short motorcade to AF1, President Trump boarded AF1 at about 8:37 p.m. CDT.
Wheels up soon for Las Vegas. 


 October 17, 2020 22:17

 Print Travel Pool #8 
?Wheels up Janesville. Wis., 8:49 CDT.
Wheels down Las Vegas 10:01 p.m. PDT.
President Trump deplaned at 10:14 p.m. PDT. He gave a fist pump to the press.
Motorcede rolling at 10:16 p.m.PDT. 


 October 17, 2020 22:38

 Print Travel Pool #9 
Crowds lined the Strip to gawk, wave and hoot at the passing motorcade.Several people yelled "fuck you" but it was unclear if it was directed at President Trump or the press since it occurred as marked press vans passed.
Otherwise it was a mixed bag of middle fingers and four fingers (supposedly for four more years).
Arrived at Trump Hotel at 10:35 p.m. PDT. Pool did not see the president enter the hotel.
A travel/photo lid was called at 10:37 p.m. PDT.
Good night. 



  