
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsements of Justin Sayfie and Slater Bayliss.
"Florida is one of the most critical states for my campaign and for the 2012 election," said Mitt Romney. "Having Justin and Slater join my team in Florida only makes us more competitive in the state. I look forward to working with them as I continue to visit Florida, reach out to voters and work to bring jobs back to the state."
In announcing his support, Justin Sayfie said, "We need a president who will create jobs, keep taxes low, and cut spending. Mitt Romney will bring leadership and experience to the White House that will be critical to solving our country's economic problems. I am proud to support him."
Slater Bayliss said, "Florida voters need a leader who will get our economy back on the right track. Mitt Romney understands how to create jobs and restore fiscal sanity. His record speaks for itself. His experience in the real economy will provide real leadership in Washington."
Background On Justin Sayfie and Slater Bayliss:
Justin Sayfie co-founded Blosser & Sayfie In 2001. He recently was Florida Co-Chair for Gov. Tim Pawlenty's presidential campaign. Previously, he served in Gov. Jeb Bush's administration as a senior policy advisor, spokesman, and chief speechwriter. Prior to entering public service, he practiced law in Miami. President George W. Bush appointed him to the President's Commission on White House Fellows in 2007, where he served until 2009. He is a Trustee of the Museum of Discovery and Science and serves on the board of the Broward Workshop. Sayfie also publishes Florida's top political news site, SayfieReview.com.
Slater Bayliss is a partner at Cardenas Partners and a Florida Co-Chair of Maverick PAC, a political action committee comprised of next-generation Republicans who promote conservative principles of personal and fiscal responsibility in public service. He recently served as Florida Co-Chair for Gov. Tim Pawlenty's presidential campaign. Previously, he was the Executive Director of "Floridians for Responsible Spending" and served in Governor Bush's Office of Tourism, Trade, and Economic Development where he focused on business recruitment efforts. From December 2000 through November 2002, he served as personal assistant to Governor Jeb Bush. He also was Director of the Republican Party of Florida's Committee of 100 and a Bush-Cheney 2004 Maverick. He serves on the board of the Florida Sports Foundation.
  