
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

All who have welcomed a child to the world can appreciate the sentiments of Ralph Waldo Emerson who wrote, "We find a delight in the beauty and happiness of children, that makes the heart too big for the body." Worthy of our deepest love and this Nation's most profound concern, children represent our dearest hopes for the future. We must ensure that they receive the care, protection, and guidance each child so richly deserves.
Millions of American children are fortunate to grow up in stable, affectionate families where they enjoy loving support. Yet far too many children lack this essential foundation, and countless young people suffer the terrible effects of hunger, poverty, neglect, and abuse. Today's families are plagued with problems that hinder their ability to tend to their children's well-being. Drug and alcohol addiction, physical and emotional violence, stress, and economic hardship all take a devastating toll.
Every one of us must take responsibility for reversing these alarming trends and for ensuring that all of our children have the opportunity to become vital, productive citizens. By getting involved now, we can reinforce the efforts of schools, churches, communities, and neighborhood organizations to strengthen families and to provide security and structure in our children's lives. Remembering that today's children will be tomorrow's leaders, educators, and parents, let us help them to look forward with hope and enthusiasm for the future.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 8, 1995, as National Children's Day. I urge the American people to express their love and appreciation for children on this day and on every day throughout the year. I invite Federal officials, local governments, communities, and particularly all American families to join together in observing this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that honor our Nation's children.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  