
    Pool Reports by Daniel Strauss, The New Republic 



Sent:
Reports:




October 5, 202118:14

VP pool report 1: DNC fundraiser 
Happy Tuesday evening
I'm your pooler for remarks the vice president is set to give at an event hosted by the DNC. The event, happening over the phone, was set to start at 6 p.m. Pool is waiting in the phone "waiting room."
I have also been told the vp's remarks haven't started yet.
I have asked organizers for more information on the event.



October 5, 202118:53

VP pool report 2: opening remarks and vp begins speaking 
Pool was let in at 6:13 p.m. just as DNC chair Jaime Harrison was finishing his opening remarks.
Pool was only able to hear part of Harrison's remarks. He said: "We're going to win big in 2022 and continue to deliver for the American people. She knows what it means to be a public servant. She knows what it means to work hard and get results. She knows what it means to deliver and it's my pleasure to introduce her now. Please join me in welcoming the Vice President of the United States, Kamala Harris."
Harris then began speaking. Her remarks are below:
She said: "Hi everyone, hi everyone. Thank you, it is wonderful to be with all of you tonight and thank you all for the work you are doing and for being a part of this -and for the work you have all been doing. I know who you are and your work has been tireless.
Jaime, thank you for not only your kind words but your continuing and steadfast leadership as our party chair. You've been doing an extraordinary job. From California to New Jersey to Virginia, the DNC is playing a critical role in the 2021 elections and I specifically mention New Jersey and Virginia because of course those elections are coming up in a matter of days. But with the support of all those gathered here I am confident that the DNC will keep it going in 2022, 2024 and beyond. But starting in 2021 with those elections. But again, thank you all for being here tonight.
You know, I believe -andI think we all do- that we are in a fight for the future of our country and our world and our children. I want to talk about what we're up against and how I believe we will win that fight. So in 2020 Democrats held on to the House, Democrats took back the Senate, and Democrats reclaimed the White House and thanks to all of the work you all did. And it was an important election and since then together we have done many important things. We have administered millions of shots in arms in the midst of a global pandemic. We have sent out millions of $1400 checks to people who sorely needed just to get by having lost employment through no fault of their own. We have created millions of jobs. Again, through one of the most difficult times in terms of our economy that we've seen in generations. And you undoubtedly have seen we are hard at work to pass the largest infrastructure our nation has seen since before World War II. And the budget that reflects the values of our nation, that invests in childcare.
Now one of the things about the pandemic is it really did expose some of the failures and fissures and fractures in our system, including the need for our affordable and necessary childcare for all parents. The need for eldercare. And the need to understand our collective responsibility to support working people in their day-to-day needs to take care of their family. And Joe and I ran on this and said that we would get this done. And to win this fight for our future, the president and I are determined to deliver for the American people, restoring their trust in our government -trust that has been lost over a pretty significant period of time. And by also showing the world that democracy can work and we all know what's at stake. Just look at what happened and what is happening in states like Texas -those anti-voter laws, the anti-woman laws. I think that when we're looking at Texas and Georgia as two examples we know that what's happening there can happen anywhere in our country. So we've got to make it clear to the American people that Democrats who are fighting against the unfairness, the injustice of these approaches, that Democrats are on their side.
And we we will show the American people what Democrats stand for. Because we know what we stand for. We stand for women's rights. We stand for worker's rights. We stand for voting rights, which is why we're working hard to pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act. We stand for our DREAMers and our farmworkers. We stand for our LGTBQ brothers and sisters and all people. We fight people with disabilities. We stand for our children and lifting them out of poverty and the planet that they will inherit.
In short, Democrats fight for the people. For all the people of our nation. So to win this fight for our future we must deliver for the American people. And we will tell the American people who we are as Democrats. And there is one last thing we need to win and that is we need your help and support to win. With your support we will be able to build the infrastructure now that we will need to protect our majorities in 2022.
So before I was talking about our infrastructure bill and that's roads and bridges and human infrastructure but then there's the infrastructure of the party and that's what I'm segueing into. Some people are saying 'well, you're talking about 2022, that seems kinda early.' And maybe it does but really it's not. And with your support we'll be able to expand our I Will Vote program to ensure that voters everywhere nomatter where they live, nomatter what party they belong to will be able to cast their vote and have it counted. This is about elections integrity because above all we stand for democracy and we stand for full participation in our democracy. We believe democracy is stronger when everyone participates and weaker when anyone is left out.
So thank you all again for being here tonight. Thank you all for your support. And please keep doing what you've been doing. It really makes a difference and on top of all of your obligations, all of the demands in your life that you have been so generous in giving back to your communities and our country in this way. It really makes all the difference. We will win this fight for our future and together I know that we will accomplish all that we see is possible and all that we know can be, regardless of what has been.
Thank you all."
Harris' remarks went for almost exactly seven minutes. Pool was then cut from the fundraising call.




  