
    A cherry pie that's perfect for both picnics and Hillary 2016 house parties.
Lily from Iowa makes this pie with sour cherries from the Des Moines farmers' market—but her homemade H logo is the true cherry on top!

INGREDIENTS
Crust:

2 1/2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tablespoon sugar
3/4 teaspoon salt
2 sticks chilled unsalted butter, in 1/2-inch cubes
5 tablespoons ice water

Filling:

1 cup plus 1 tablespoon sugar
3 tablespoons cornstarch
1/4 teaspoon salt
5 cups whole pitted cherries (sour or dark sweet)
1 teaspoon fresh lemon juice (if using sour cherries) or 3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice (if using dark sweet cherries)
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1/4 stick unsalted butter, in 1/2-inch cubes
1 tablespoon milk

PIE PREP
Crust:
Mix flour, sugar, and salt in a large mixing bowl. Add butter. Combine with your fingers until the mixture starts to form small clumps. Add ice water. Continue mixing, this time with a fork, until small balls of dough hold together when pressed. If the crust mixture is dry, add more water by the teaspoon. Divide the dough into two sections, forming each into a ball. Flatten each ball, wrap in plastic, and refrigerate for at least 30 minutes. Let the dough soften, then roll it out.
Filling and lattice:
Preheat your oven to 425°F. Your oven rack should be in the lower third of the oven.
Use a whisk to combine 1 cup sugar, cornstarch, and salt in a medium bowl. Add cherries, lemon juice, and vanilla.
On a floured surface, roll out the first ball of dough into a 12-inch disk. Place it in a 9-inch glass pie dish. Trim the dough hanging over the side of the dish to 1/2 an inch. Add the filling to the pie dish, with slightly more in the center. Dot the filling with butter. Then roll out the second ball of dough on a floured surface into a second 12-inch disk. Cut ten 3/4-inch-wide strips out of the second flattened disk, and arrange them atop the filling in a lattice. Trim the strips of dough until they hang 1/2 inch over the side before folding the bottom crust over the ends of the strip and crimping the edges to seal the pie. Brush the lattice crust, but not the edges, with milk. Sprinkle the lattice with the remaining sugar (1 tablespoon).
BAKING INSTRUCTIONS
Set the pie on a rimmed baking sheet and bake for 15 minutes. Adjust the oven temperature to 375°F. Bake for about an hour until the filling bubbles and the crust becomes golden brown, covering the edges with foil if they brown too quickly. Transfer your pie to a cooling rack and let it cool completely before serving.
  