
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




October 21, 202118:25

VP Pool Report #1
The vice president's motorcade departed from West Executive Avenue at 5:38 pm EDT en route to a campaign rally for Terry McAullife in Dumfries, Virginia.
Pool saw Vice President Harris walk out of the White House at 5:35pm with Cedric Richmond, a senior adviser to President Biden. They spoke for several minutes in view of the pool, which was waiting in vans nearby.
The motorcade is currently on the highway, heading to the campaign event that a McAullife campaign press release linked to early voting.



October 21, 202118:49

VP Pool Report #2: event arrival
The VP's motorcade arrived at the McAullife event at 6:18 pm. Pool did not see VP Harris enter.
Just outside the event, a group of Trump supporters had gathered. Among the signs and banners was one that said "BUILD THE WALL."
We're awaiting remarks.
I'm adding photos at this Dropbox link:
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/wm0utnbh08wj0xs/AABqJ72d10v3nuh5NYqSwUnha?dl=0



October 21, 202119:30

VP Pool Report #3: VP on stage, Happy Birthday song and demonstrators
The rally is under way. It is open press but below here are some color + quotes from the event. Per usual, please check them against video.
Dorothy McAuliffe gave remarks first and introduced her husband Terry McAullife, the Democratic nominee for governor in Virginia.
At the top of his remarks, McAullife said he was "honored" to have VP Harris with him.
"If you didn't know, it was her birthday yesterday," McAullife said.
McAullife later mentioned Harris again, while talking about his opponent, Republican Glenn Youngkin, and former President Donald Trump.
"In 2020, Kamala Harris was elected vice president, and Joe Biden was elected President of the United States of America," McAullife said.
McAullife called Harris, "a great friend of mine, I love this woman. She has made history, as you know."
He talked about their work on COVID and Harris' efforts on women in the workforce. McAullife spoke for about 11 minutes before Harris joined him on stage.
Attendees welcomed her by singing happy birthday.
"You know what I want for my birthday? I want this man to be elected the next governor of the Commonwealth of Virginia," she said.
Harris said that four years can be a very long time or a very short time. "I'm here, the president will be here and is always with Terry," she said.
Moments later, demonstrators interrupted Harris. It was unclear what they were saying.
Harris initially kept talking but then said in response, "I love Democrats and I love democracy."
Attendees then began yelling, "Terry."
Harris continued to speak. "We will not be distracted. We will not be deterred. This election is too important," she said, getting louder.
The VP just finished speaking. More to come.



October 21, 202119:32

VP Pool Report #4
The VP's motorcade left at 7:16 pm from the event.
Harris spoke for roughly 10 minutes and stayed on stage for several more alongside McAullife and other rally speakers. The group swayed to WALK THE MOON's "Shut up and Dance."
According to the VP's office, the crowd count is 600, per the McAullife campaign.



October 21, 202121:11

VP Pool Report #5: Harris response to protesters
After listening to audio from the event, here's what Harris said to the protesters: "We will not be distracted. We will not be dissuaded. We will not be deterred. This election is too important."
It still was not possible to make out what the demonstrators yelled at her.
Motorcade is still on the highway, heading back to Washington, D.C. from Virginia.



October 21, 202121:18

VP Pool Report #6: Harris headed home
At 7:53 PM the VP's motorcade split off to take her home after reentering the District of Columbia while the pool continued on in vans to the White House.
Have a good evening, everyone.




  