
    Over 15 Days, Harris Has Expanded Precinct Leadership to Enter November Strong
In the month leading up to the Iowa Democratic Party's Liberty and Justice Celebration, Senator Kamala Harris "moved to Iowa," spending 15 days at more than 30 different events across the state -- the most Iowa activity of any Democratic candidate in October by far. Throughout the month, Harris campaigned in the state each week to engage caucusgoers personally and hear directly from Iowans about their experiences and issues that matter most to them in this election. Harris has emphasized her record of fighting for justice for all Americans, and her plans as President to fight for economic justice, reproductive justice, and health care justice, among others. As she has said across Iowa this month, justice is on the ballot in 2020. 
Harris' activity this month has also targeted the importance of the precinct-level organizing that is crucial for success on caucus night -- from personally recruiting volunteers to serve as precinct captains on caucus night, to hosting a strategy session with Women for Kamala Captains. 
She has worked to meet Iowans where they are -- in their barbershops, in their living rooms, at their local farmer's market, and more. These personal interactions have continued to shape Harris' campaign -- from discussing how to end the epidemic of gun violence over Sunday Supper with the Grimm family in Ames, to hearing from mothers at a Mamas for Kamala playdate in Vinton about what her Children's Agenda would mean to them.
Along the way, Harris has continued to earn new supporters -- from Cedar County Democratic Party Chair Larry Hodgden after she announced her plan to combat President Trump's war on rural America, to Johnson County Supervisor Pat Heiden at her town hall in Iowa City. As well as hundreds of precinct captains. 
Heading into November, Harris will maintain frequent travel to Iowa and keep building out her on the ground organizing in every corner of the state.
  