
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 8
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, from Martha's Vineyard, MA.
October 10
In the morning, the President met with business leaders in the Cabinet Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur L. Money to be Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition.
October 11
The President announced his intention to nominate William P. Foster to be a member of the National Council on the Arts.
October 12
In the evening, the President attended a Clinton-Gore fundraiser at the Hotel Washington.
The President announced his intention to appoint Maj. Gen. John P. Herrling, USA (Ret.), to serve as Secretary of the American Battle Monuments Commission.
October 13
In the morning, the President met with Weigelt-Wallace Award recipients J. Andy Sullivan and David Tuggle, two doctors from Oklahoma City, OK, who were recognized for their medical services following the Alfred P. Murrah Federal Building bombing.
In the early evening, the President traveled to Williamsburg, VA, where he addressed the Business Council. He returned to Washington, DC, later in the evening.
The President declared a major disaster in Alaska and ordered Federal funds to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on September 18 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gerald Wesley Scott to be Ambassador to Gambia.
The President announced his intention to nominate David P. Rawson to be Ambassador to Mali.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert E. Gribbin III to be Ambassador to Rwanda.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ralph R. Johnson to be Ambassador to the Slovak Republic.
The President announced his intention to renominate both Barry M. Goldwater and Peter S. Knight to the Communications Satellite Corporation (COMSAT) Board of Directors.
The White House announced that the President will attend the dedication of the National Czech and Slovak Museum and Library and will meet with President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic and President Michal Kovac of the Slovak Republic on October 21 in Cedar Rapids, IA.
  