
    On Friday, October 7, 2016, the President signed into law:
H.R. 1475, the "Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of Remembrance Act," which authorizes the Korean War Veterans Memorial Foundation to construct a Wall of Remembrance at the site of the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington, D.C.;
H.R. 2494, the "Eliminate, Neutralize, and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2016," which supports a collaborative, interagency approach to addressing wildlife trafficking in order to protect and conserve species threatened by poaching and illegal wildlife trade;
H.R. 2733, the "Nevada Native Nations Land Act," which transfers Federal land in Nevada into trust status for the benefit of certain Indian tribes;
H.R. 3004, which extends the authorization for the Gullah/Geechee Cultural Heritage Corridor Commission through October 12, 2021;
H.R. 3937, which designates the building utilized as a United States courthouse located at 150 Reade Circle in Greenville, North Carolina, as the Randy D. Doub United States Courthouse;
H.R. 5147, the "Bathrooms Accessible in Every Situation Act" or "BABIES Act," which requires the General Services Administration (GSA) to equip restrooms in public buildings constructed, altered, or acquired by GSA with baby changing facilities;
H.R. 5578, the "Survivors' Bill of Rights Act of 2016," which establishes additional rights for survivors of sexual assault;
H.R. 5883, the "Clarification of Treatment of Electronic Sales of Livestock Act of 2016," which amends and updates the Packers and Stockyards Act;
H.R. 5944, which specifies that an airport owner or operator that renews a covered lease would not be considered to be in violation of certain written assurance requirements related to grants awarded by the Department of Transportation for airport development projects;
H.R. 5946, the "United States Appreciation for Olympians and Paralympics Act of 2016," which amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from gross income, for income tax purposes, the value of certain medals or prize money won in competition in the Olympic Games or the Paralympic Games;
S. 1004, the "Veterans Day Moment of Silence Act," which encourages the nationwide observance of two minutes of silence each Veterans Day;
S. 1698, the "Treatment of Certain Payments in Eugenics Compensation Act," which excludes payments from State eugenics compensation programs from being considered as income for the purposes of determining eligibility for or the amount of Federal public benefits;
S. 2683, the "Federal Aviation Administration Veteran Transition Improvement Act of 2016," which amends current law to apply disabled veteran leave requirements to the Federal Aviation Administration's personnel management system; and
S. 3283, which designates the community-based outpatient clinic of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Pueblo, Colorado, as the PFC James Dunn VA Clinic.
  