
    Despite every attempt by the media to prematurely choose the Republican nominee for President, the American people have decided that they are going to choose their own candidate. It was the media that anointed Barack Obama despite his lack of presidential caliber credentials, and we all know what a disaster that turned out to be. Now our great nation is in peril, and we need someone with the knowledge and experience to tackle the mounting domestic and foreign policy problems that we face.
These problems have become exponentially more difficult because of the lack of leadership in the White House, and it is going to take brilliance, tempered by experience, to dig ourselves out of the Obama economy. It is that rare combination of intelligence and experience that makes Speaker Gingrich uniquely qualified to be the next President of the United States, and the American people are starting to take notice!
Without attacking his fellow candidates, Speaker Gingrich has surged in the polls, overtaking Governor Rick Perry and solidifying himself in the top tier of Republican contenders. The media narrative on Newt is, "He is the most intelligent candidate and he has an unparalleled record of accomplishment, but…."
But what? If Newt Gingrich is the most qualified person to lead - and we know he is - then there really is no question who the nominee should be! If the thought of a Newt vs. Obama debate sounds good to you, we need your help!
This is our moment! With the release of the 21st Century Contract with America and Newt's surge in the polls, this is our opportunity to ensure that the most experienced and qualified candidate gets a chance to implement the policies that will reclaim American exceptionalism from the failed ideas of the left! We must seize this moment and we need your help.
In order to keep building this momentum all the way to the nomination, we need to remind people of the moment when Newt owns the debate and proves that he is the candidate with the solutions we need. We are producing an ad that will do exactly that, and you can help us get it out by making a generous financial contribution today!
Our team is committed to running an honorable campaign that relies more on grassroots enthusiasm than on 30-second attack ads. Aided by a tireless candidate, our campaign is surging despite being heavily outspent, but to take the next step towards the nomination we need the resources to compete with the considerable war chests of the other candidates. To start, we need to raise between $100,000 and $250,000 this week, and we will only be successful if you make a generous contribution.
We pledge to get maximum value from every dollar. If you believe that speaker Gingrich is the most knowledgeable, experienced, and qualified candidate, please make an investment in the future of this country by making a contribution of $10, $25, $50, $100, up to the maximum of $2500.
Thank You,
Michael Krull
Newt 2012
Campaign Manager
  