
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Des Moines, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Iowa families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Iowa the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus. 
The President's Paycheck Protection Program provided over $5.1 billion worth of loans to more than 61,000 Iowa businesses and saved 500,000 jobs.
1.5 million Iowans received Economic Impact Payments totaling more than $2.7 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing Iowa with up to $1.25 billion in assistance to deal with the outbreak and nearly $298 million so far to 3,264 health care providers in the state.

Iowa's businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Iowa's workers and businesses, and he will do it again.
Over the last four months, Iowa added back 97,500 jobs following the economy's artificial interruptions from the China virus.
Iowa added almost 12,000 new jobs in the first three years of the Trump Administration, including 10,100 new manufacturing jobs. When Joe Biden was Vice President, Iowa lost 2,200 manufacturing jobs.
In February, Iowa's unemployment rate was just 2.8%, it's lowest level since 2000. During the Obama-Biden Administration, the average unemployment rate in Iowa wasnearly 5%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to add over 13,000 new Iowa jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 62 Iowa communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities. 

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America-First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Iowa's economy: 

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Iowa's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports more than $6.6 billion worth of goods to Canada and Mexico each year.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports 130,000 Iowa jobs, including 25,000 manufacturing jobs.
The USMCA will boost Iowa's agricultural exports, helping the state's farmers and agriculture producers.
President Trump is defending Iowa farmers and agricultural producers from China by providing $1.5 billion in direct USDA payments to offset the damage of China's tariffs.

But Joe Biden's disastrous agenda will decimate Iowa's recovering economy and undo President Trump's policies that help Iowans the most:

The trade deals that Joe Biden supported throughout his 44 years in office killed Iowa jobs.

Iowa lost 6,500 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden voted for.
Iowa lost 12,900 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 29,900 Iowa jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's dangerous policies would devastate Iowa's ethanol industry.?

President Trump made E15 ethanol available year-round, boosting Iowa's economy and advancing American energy independence.
Every year from 2014to 2017, the Obama-Biden Administration cut the amount of ethanol mandated by the RFS below the statutory level.
Joe Biden helped orchestrate a cut in the Renewable Fuel Standard when he was Vice President, harming Iowa's ethanol producers.
Iowa ethanol producers asked Biden to explain his actions, even taking out a full-page ad in the Des Moines Register calling on him to explain himself, but they never received a reply.?


Biden's radical energy policies would devastate Iowa workers and businesses.

The oil, natural gas, and coal industries support more than 83,000 Iowa jobs and contribute $7 billion to the state's economy each year.
75% of Iowa's homes use natural gas, propane, or fuel oil as their primary heating source, fuels that Joe Biden has pledged to "end."


Biden's embrace of radical, government-run health care endangers the private health insurance that 1.8 million Iowans rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 52 of Iowa's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.



  