
    From Friday, October 7, through Saturday, October 8, First Lady Jill Biden will hold events in San Francisco, California and Seattle, Washington.
Thursday, October 6
At 5:45 PM PT, the First Lady will arrive at San Francisco International Airport. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Wednesday 10/5 at 6:00 PM PT.
Friday, October 7
At 10:15 AM PT, as part of the Biden Administration's Cancer Moonshot and to mark Breast Cancer Awareness Month, the First Lady will visit the University of California, San Francisco Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center to highlight advances in breast cancer research and programs that support breast cancer patients, survivors, and caregivers. This event will be pooled press. For media interested in joining the pool, RSVP HERE by Thursday 10/6 at 6:00 PM PT.
At 12:15 PM PT, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee (DCCC) Women's Lunch and Issues Conference in San Francisco, CA. The First Lady's remarks will be covered by a print pooler only.
At 3:15 PM PT, the First Lady will arrive at King County International Airport. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Thursday 10/6 at 6:00 PM PT.
At 4:15 PM PT, the First Lady will visit Bates Technical College in Tacoma, WA, to highlight its workforce development programs as leading examples for community college and technical career pipelines that connect current high school and postsecondary students to resources and opportunities. This visit will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Thursday 10/6 at 6:00 PM PT.
Saturday, October 8
At 12:00 PM PT, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at a local finance event for Senator Patty Murray. This event will be covered by a print pooler only.
At 1:00 PM PT, as part of the White House's Joining Forces initiative, the First Lady, Senator Patty Murray, and Secretary of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough will host a Hidden Helpers Coalition event with the Elizabeth Dole Foundation and Wounded Warrior Project. The event will celebrate children in military and veteran caregiving families at the Pacific Science Center in Seattle, WA. This event will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, RSVP HERE by Thursday 10/6 at 6:00 PM PT.
  