
    Alberto A. Mitrani, M.D.
Internal Medicine
Health Status Summary
John Ellis (Jeb) Bush
Date of Birth: 02.11.1953
This health statement is provided at the request of John E. Bush and it summarizes his medical history. I have served as Mr. Bush's personal physician since 2007. I am an Internist practicing in South Florida as a faculty physician at the University of Miami Miller School of Medicine from 1987 to 2001 and in a private practice from 2001 to the present. I maintain an affiliation with the University of Miami as a Voluntary Associate Professor of Clinical Medicine.
Mr. Bush was last evaluated in September 2015. His general appearance was that of a healthy normal male. Current daily medications include atorvastatin 20 mg and vitamin D3 2000 i.u. At the time of his visit, his blood pressure was 116/75, and his pulse was 64/min and regular. Other vital signs were normal and his BMI was 25.8. The physical examination was normal. Laboratory testing demonstrated a total cholesterol of 146 mg/dl; LDL of 64 mg/dl; HDL of 89 mg/dl; and triglycerides of 33 mg/dl.
Previous mild elevations of his blood pressure and his blood glucose have normalized with intensification of exercise, careful eating habits and loss of weight. He has been exercising regularly and he has maintained generally healthful eating habits for many years. Prior medical history includes vitamin D insufficiency, gastritis, colon polyps, sinusitis, and low back pain. Surgical history includes an appendectomy, a tonsillectomy, and arthroscopic knee surgery. Due to his family history, exercise stress echocardiography and carotid ultrasonography were recommended. The exercise time on the treadmill was greater than 12 minutes as Mr. Bush achieved 13.7 METS, indicating a capacity to complete high intensity physical activity. The carotid ultrasound revealed minor thickening of the carotid wall with normal blood flow. With the family history in mind, Mr. Bush began taking atorvastatin in 2013.
With respect to preventive health maintenance, prostate, dermatological, and eye examinations have been unremarkable. Colonoscopy will continue to be indicated periodically due to the presence of previous colon polyps.
As detailed above, Mr. Bush is a healthy and vigorous 62-year-old man. He is proactive from a cardiovascular perspective and actively engaged in his health care. He is compliant with medical recommendations and maintains favorable lifestyle habits. He is in excellent physical and mental condition and able to serve in any stressful and demanding executive setting including the Office of the President of the United States.

Alberto A. Mitrani, M.D.
Executive Health of Coral Gables, LC
2015 Health Status Summary
  