
    Today, Vice President Kamala Harris convened 75 student leaders at the White House from colleges and universities across 33 states to discuss the fight to protect reproductive rights.
During the conversation, the student leaders spoke about reproductive health care access on their college and university campuses, and they shared stories about how students are organizing in their communities following the Supreme Court overturning Roe v. Wade in Dobbs v. Jackson Women's Health Organization. The student leaders highlighted how young people are mobilizing to oppose restrictive abortion laws, and how these laws are creating confusion for individuals seeking reproductive health services. They discussed the intersection of attacks on abortion access and attacks on voting rights and LGBTQI+ rights – noting the importance of building coalitions to defend rights and freedoms.
The Vice President and student leaders spoke about supporting survivors of sexual violence on college campuses and making it easier for individuals to receive health care free from stigma. The participants raised concerns about access to contraception on campus and the ability to travel out-of-state if necessary to receive reproductive care. The Vice President applauded the student leaders for their work and encouraged them to continue fighting for reproductive freedom.
The Vice President has brought together leaders from across the nation who are on the frontlines fighting to protect reproductive health care and abortion access. This month, the Vice President has traveled to Connecticut and Texas to participate in conversations with reproductive rights leaders, and she chaired the Second Meeting of the Interagency Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access at the White House. Since May, she has held more than 20 convenings and met with 180+ state legislators from 18 states to discuss protecting reproductive rights. The Vice President has also convened health care providers, constitutional law experts, faith leaders, state attorneys general, disability rights leaders, higher education leaders, students, and advocates.
Colleges and Universities Represented

Agnes Scott College
Alabama A&M University
American University
Arkansas Tech University
Benedict College
Brown University
Carthage College
Central Piedmont Community College
Columbia University
CSU Dominguez Hills
CUNY New York City College of Technology
Dartmouth College
Depauw University
Dickinson College
East Tennessee State University
Emmanuel College
Florida International University (FIU)
Florida State University
Fort Lewis College
George Washington University
Georgetown University
Gettysburg College
Governors State University
Harris-Stowe State University
Harvard College
Howard University
Ivy Tech Community College
Kent State University
Lincoln University-Pennsylvania
Michigan State University
New Jersey City University
Northeast Community College
Northeastern University
Oberlin College
Occidental College
Reed College
Smith College
Sonoma State University
Spelman College
St. Olaf College
St. Philip's Community College
Tennessee State University
Texas A&M University
The State University of New York at Binghamton
Tufts University
University of California, Berkeley
University of California, Davis
University of California, Riverside
University of Albany
University of Arizona
University of Birmingham
University of Cincinnati
University of Idaho
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
University of Maryland
University of Nevada Las Vegas
University of Nevada Reno
University of North Carolina
University of North Carolina at Charlotte
University of Pittsburgh
University of Richmond
University of Rochester
Virginia Commonwealth University
Washington University in St. Louis
Winona State University
Xavier University of Louisiana

  