
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 18
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from San Carlos de Bariloche to Buenos Aires, Argentina. Later, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving the following morning.
October 21
The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Lynn III to be Under Secretary of Defense, Comptroller.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard M. McGahey to serve as Assistant Secretary for Policy at the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Cyril Kent McGuire to serve as Assistant Secretary of Educational Research and Improvement at the Department of Education.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert McNamara, Jr., to serve as General Counsel at the Central Intelligence Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Daryl L. Jones to be Secretary of the Air Force.
The President announced his intention to appoint former Representative John Bryant as head of the U.S. delegation to the International Telecommunication Union's 1997 World Radiocommunications Conference in Geneva, Switzerland, with the personal rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to appoint Sam W. Brown with the personal rank of Ambassador during his service as the head of the U.S. delegation to the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe's Ministerial Preparatory Conferences in Vienna, Austria.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert L. Baxter as a member of the Advisory Committee to the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection.
October 22
In the afternoon, the President met with Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew I in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Charles Horsley as Associate Deputy Secretary and Director of Intermodalism at the Department of Transportation.
The White House announced the President's intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Advisory Committee on Public Interest Obligations of Digital Television Broadcasters: Charles Benton, Frank Blythe, Peggy Charren, Harold C. Crump, Frank Cruz, Robert Decherd, Barry Diller, William Duhamel, Rob Glaser, Jim Goodmon, Paul La Camera, Richard Masur, Newton Minow, Shelby Scott, Gigi Sohn, Karen Peltz Strauss, Cass R. Sunstein, Lois Jean White, and James Yee.
The White House announced that the President received the final report of the Presidential Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection on October 20.
October 23
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Beth West for the rank of Ambassador to be Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and Space.
The President announced his intention to nominate William R. Ferris to be Chair of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
The President announced the nomination of William Dale Montgomery to be Ambassador to Croatia.
The President named 60 young researchers to receive the second annual Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers.
The White House announced that the President invited President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico to Washington, DC, for a working visit on November 14.
October 24
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the taping of a National Symphony Orchestra performance at the Kennedy Center Concert Hall for later broadcast.
The President announced the nomination of Linda Key Breathitt as a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The President announced the nomination of Curt Hebert, Jr., as a member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
The President announced the nomination of Frank D. Yturria to serve as a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation.
  