
    The debate featured a clear choice between a reformer who gets the job done and a career politician from the D.C. swamp who is all talk, no action.
The debate exposed Biden for what he truly is: a corrupt career politician who spent 44 years in office selling out American workers. Biden declared his intention to destroy the oil industry, was unable to explain or defend his family's influence peddling around the world, and blamed "a Republican congress" for his lifetime of failure. 

Frank Luntz, pollster: "I asked my focus group who won the exchange on COVID. One voter said: "I think Trump won because Biden didn't convince me that he would do anything differently than what Trump has done so far. He didn't provide tangible examples." #Debates2020"
Chris Wallace, Fox News: "There were clearly times when Joe Biden seemed to falter a little bit in making his point or finishing his sentence."
Jake Tapper, CNN: "Biden struggled when Trump confronted him with the question of: you've been in politics for 47 years, you were Vice President for 8 years, why didn't you do that then? I thought that was the most effective thing that Trump did this evening."
Daniel Dale, CNN: "In this case, Trump is correct, Biden did make anti-fracking comments in 2019 and 2020, and Trump was not lying."

President Trump was the undisputed champion of tonight's debate. He's a businessman who went to Washington to fight for workers and fix decades of disastrous policies created by Joe Biden and the rest of the Washington swamp.

Megyn Kelly, journalist: "Trump won this debate, handily. Biden wasn't a force at all. Trump was substantive, on-point, well-tempered. Definitely helped himself, when it mattered most."
Frank Luntz, pollster: "Trump's demeanor tonight is pitch perfect. #Debates2020"
Liz Mair, Never-Trumper: "Sorry, but Trump won that by a country mile. It probably won't matter because there are so few undecided voters and so many people have already voted early or by mail. But Biden really underwhelmed and underdelivered."
Jonah Goldberg, Never-Trumper: "Trump won first round on points."
Josh Holmes, former Senate Chief of Staff: "Trump is winning this debate. And it's not particularly close."
Joe Concha, The Hill: "Trump has won this debate. Watch the polls in the next 10 days if looking for affirmation. The game has changed."
Ari Fleischer, Fox News: "Let Biden hang himself with his own liberal, typical politician words, that's what the president did very artfully tonight... [The president] established an overarching theme: outsider with results, vs. the ultimate insider typical politician who has no results and keeps moving left… He went beyond the base, criminal justice reform, his appeal to African Americans. The president made a very cogent case of all the things that he has done and delivered for the Black community, and did so with substance."
Kirstie Alley, actress: "I LOVE THIS Trump! COOL CALM AND POIGNANT !! You have WON THE DEBATE!!"

The contrast could not have been clearer. Joe Biden was weak and distracted, with no plan for the future other than to surrender to the coronavirus, shut down our economy, and keep Americans locked in their basements. President Trump dominated the night and showcased his vision for a future brighter than ever before!
  