
    Presidential Determination No. 88-01
Memorandum for the United States Coordinator for Refugee Affairs
In accordance with Section 207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ("the Act"), and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I have made the following determinations:
a. The admission of up to 72,500 refugees to the United States during FY 1988 is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest.
b. Four thousand of these admissions numbers shall be set aside for private sector admissions initiatives. The admission of refugees using these 4,000 numbers shall be contingent upon the availability of private sector funding sufficient to cover the essential and reasonable costs of such admissions.
c. The 68,500 refugee admissions covered under Federal programs shall be allocated among refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States as described in the documentation presented to the Congress during the consultations that preceded this Determination and in accordance with the following regional allocations:
Africa     3,000
East Asia, First Asylum     29,500
East Asia, Orderly Departure Program     8,500
Eastern Europe/Soviet Union     15,000
Latin America/Caribbean     3,500
Near East/South Asia     9,000
Unused admissions numbers allocated to a particular region may be transferred to one or more other regions if there is an overriding need for greater numbers for the region or regions to which the numbers are being transferred. The Coordinator will consult with the Congress prior to any such reallocation.
d. The 4,000 privately funded admissions may be used for refugees of special humanitarian concern to the United States in any region of the world at any time during the fiscal year. The Congress shall be notified in advance of the intended use of these numbers.
e. An additional 5,000 refugee admissions numbers shall be made available for the adjustment to permanent resident status under Section 209(b) of the Act of aliens who have been granted asylum in the United States under Section 208 of the Act, as this is justified by humanitarian concerns or is otherwise in the national interest.
In accordance with Section 101(a)(42) of the Act, and after appropriate consultation with the Congress, I have specified that the following persons may, if otherwise qualified, be considered refugees for the purposes of admission to the United States while still within their countries of nationality or habitual residence:
a. Persons in Vietnam and Laos with past or present ties to the United States; persons who have been or currently are in reeducation camps in Vietnam or seminar camps in Laos; Amerasians in Vietnam; and the accompanying family members of such persons.
b. Present and former political prisoners and persons in imminent danger of loss of life in countries of Latin America and the Caribbean, and their accompanying family members.
You are hereby authorized and directed to report this Determination to the Congress immediately and to publish it in the Federal Register.
RONALD REAGAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, October 5, 1987.
  