
    South Carolinians Stake Their Future with Hillary: We Need Her
(COLUMBIA) – A little after noon today, Sen. Hillary Clinton became an official candidate on the South Carolina Democratic Presidential Primary ballot.
Five South Carolinians arrived at the state party to deliver Hillary's materials for candidacy to SCDP Chair Carol Fowler, as they said, to stake their future with Hillary.
"We need her on the ballot and we need her in the White House. We've all got a stake in this. It's about the future of our country and the issues we're facing. Hillary is the person with the experience to go to work from the day she's sworn into office," Kenny Gayten, co-owner and operator of Wise Young Minds after-school care facility in Columbia, said. "For educators like me and my wife, Hillary's the best choice."
Hillary visited Wise Young Minds after-school care on a recent trip to South Carolina. She and Congressman John Lewis toured the facility after reading and talking with children there. The private facility is owned and operated by Gayten and his wife Sonya Davis.
"Whether it's pushing for early childhood education, supporting after school care or helping make college more affordable and accessible, Hillary's been with us and she's my choice for President," Davis said.
The current world situation was one of the primary reasons for former Laurens County Sheriff, Democratic County Party Chairman and Army Reservist Jim Moore to help put Hillary on the ballot, he said.
"Hillary is who I trust to support our troops. She's fought for body armor, fair pay and benefits for our service members. My future is with her," Moore said. "As a former law enforcement officer, I think she's the right choice for all our communities in South Carolina."
Orangeburg small business owner Christopher Lykes said Hillary was the best choice for the state's economic future.
"She's going to be the best President for small businesses like mine. That's why I support her and why I'm here today making her an official candidate on the ballot," Lykes, owner of Uptown Sports, said.
Rev. Artis Bufford of Armenia Baptist Church in Chester, South Carolina, joined the group in filing Hillary's papers of candidacy.
  