
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Sarah C. Arbes of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Legislation). 
Ms. Arbes currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislation at the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). In this role, she serves as a senior liaison between Congress and HHS. Before joining HHS, Ms. Arbes worked at Business Roundtable as the trade group's chief advocate on healthcare and retirement policy. She also has nearly a decade of service in Congress, having worked on the United States Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions as Chairman Lamar Alexander's (R-TN) Deputy Health Policy Director, Senator Mitch McConnell's (R-KY) Legislative Assistant, and Senator Jim Talent's (R-MO) Senior Constituent Caseworker. Ms. Arbes was also Vice President of Government Affairs at the Retail Industry Leaders Association and served in the George W. Bush administration as a congressional liaison at the Department of Labor. She earned her M.P.A. from Syracuse University and her B.A. from The University of Oklahoma. Ms. Arbes resides in Annandale, Virginia, with her husband and two children.
Todd C. Chapman of Texas, to be Ambassadors Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federative Republic of Brazil.
Mr. Chapman, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, most recently served as Ambassador to the Republic of Ecuador. He previously served as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Political Military Affairs, Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Brasilia, Brazil, and Senior Deputy Coordinator for Economic Affairs at the United States Embassy in Kabul, Afghanistan. Mr. Chapman was also Chargé d'Affaires and Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Maputo, Mozambique, Political/Economic/Commercial Counselor at the United States Embassy in La Paz, Bolivia, and Economic Officer at the United States Embassy in San Jose, Costa Rica. Earlier in his career, Mr. Chapman held positions in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs and in Nigeria, Uganda, Mozambique, and Taiwan. Before joining the Foreign Service, he worked as a Consultant in Brazil and Texas and as a Commercial Banker in New York and Saudi Arabia. Mr. Chapman earned an A.B. from Duke University and an M.S. from the Joint Military Intelligence College.
Robert J. Feitel of Maryland, to be Inspector General of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
Mr. Feitel currently serves as a Trial Attorney in the Capital Case Section of the Department of Justice. Before joining the Capital Case Section of Main Justice, in early 2011, Mr. Feitel served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the criminal division at the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia, where he also served in 2002. In 2010, he was detailed to the Justice Department's National Security Division, Office of Intelligence, Counter-Terrorism Unit. Previously, he served as a Special Assistant United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia from 2001-2002. In 1995, Mr. Feitel joined the Federal Bureau of Investigation as an Assistant General Counsel. Following law school, he clerked for the Honorable Stephen M. Waldron, Circuit Court for Harford County, Maryland. Mr. Feitel earned a B.A. from the University of Michigan and a J.D. from the University of Maryland School of Law.

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board:

Sarah Huckabee Sanders of Arkansas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 22, 2022.
Shahira E. Knight of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring September 22, 2020. 

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members to the Board of Visitors to the United States Merchant Marine Academy for terms of two years expiring January 2, 2022:

Jennifer Boykin of Virginia (Academy Graduate). 
Stephen M. Carmel of Virginia (Maritime Rep).
Robert Scott Volkert of New Jersey.
Kevin James Walsh of New Jersey (Academy Graduate).
Vice Admiral Johnny R. Wolfe, Jr. of Texas (Flag Officer).

  