
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest television ad, entitled "Ladies and Gentlemen." The ad highlights Joe Biden -- Barack Obama's own running-mate -- guaranteeing an international crisis if Barack Obama is elected. Because of Barack Obama's inexperience, Joe Biden has guaranteed the American people that the world will test Barack Obama within the first six months of being elected. If Barack Obama's vote against the surge and response to the Russia-Georgia crisis are any indication, Americans can't afford to see if he passes the test or not. The ad will be televised in key states.
VIEW THE AD HERE:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pgbS-vy9_Sk
Script For "Ladies And Gentlemen" (TV :30)
ANNCR: Listen to Joe Biden.
Talking about what electing Barack Obama will mean.
JOE BIDEN: Mark my words.
It will not be six months before the world tests Barack Obama.
The world is looking.
We're going to have an international crisis ... to test the mettle of this guy.
I guarantee you it's gonna happen.
ANNCR: It doesn't have to happen.
Vote McCain.
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message.
 AD FACTS: Script For "Ladies And Gentlemen" (TV :30)
ANNCR: Listen to Joe Biden. Talking about what electing Barack Obama will mean. JOE BIDEN: Mark my words. It will not be six months before the world tests Barack Obama. The world is looking. We're going to have an international crisis ... to test the mettle of this guy. I guarantee you it's gonna happen. ANNCR: It doesn't have to happen. Vote McCain. JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message.

Joe Biden: Mark my words. Mark my words. It will not be six months before the world tests Barack Obama like they did John Kennedy. ... The world is looking. We're about to elect a brilliant 47-year old senator president of the United States of America. Remember I said it standing here if you don't remember anything else I said. Watch, we're gonna have an international crisis, a generated crisis, to test the mettle of this guy. And he's gonna have to make some really tough - I don't know what the decision's gonna be, but I promise you it will occur. As a student of history and having served with seven presidents, I guarantee you it's gonna happen. I can give you at least four or five scenarios from where it might originate. And he's gonna need help." (Joe Biden, Remarks, Seattle, WA, 10/19/08)

  