
    We're asking businesses and organizations across the country to sign our new pledge to America's workers.President Donald J. Trump
ANSWERING THE PLEDGE: Companies and associations are responding to President Donald J. Trump's call and pledging to educate and train more than 6 million workers. 

Companies and associations continue to sign the Pledge to America's Workers and have now committed to provide more than 6 million educational and training opportunities.

With these new opportunities, millions of American workers will have the skills and training to advance their careers and earn bigger paychecks.
These opportunities were secured through private sector pledges, not taxpayer dollars.
Further, a bipartisan group of 41 governors have signed a pledge to America's workers.




President Trump launched the pledge in late July, prompting more than 20 companies and associations to pledge more than 3.8 million training opportunities over the next five years.

Walmart pledged 1,000,000 new opportunities.
IBM pledged 100,000 new opportunities.
FedEx pledged more than 500,000 new opportunities.
Other companies included Apple, Boeing, and Lockheed Martin, and more.


Since then, more than 100 new companies and associations have joined these efforts to bring the total to more than 6 million new opportunities.

IPC, the Association Connecting Electronics Industries, is pledging 1 million new opportunities.
AT&T is pledging 200,000 new opportunities.
The National Association of Landscape Professionals is pledging 150,000 opportunities.



DEVELOPING OUR WORKFORCE: President Trump has prioritized workforce development to better train and equip American workers.

Reflecting his commitment to preparing our Nation's workforce, President Trump signed an Executive Order creating the National Council for the American Worker in July 2018.
The Council, comprised of senior Federal officials, is creating a national strategy to ensure our students and workers have the education and training needed to compete in today's economy.
The President also established an Advisory Board comprised of business, non-profit, and education leaders to provide recommendations to the Council.

MEETING JOB MARKET DEMANDS: The American economy is roaring back to life and offering workers more and more opportunities that require new skills and training. 

As a result of President Donald Trump's policies, the economy is booming and providing workers with an unpreceded number of job opportunities.

The unemployment rate has reached a 49 year low.
There are a record 7.1 million job openings in the United States.
The record number of job openings is bringing workers back off the sidelines who had been pushed out of the workforce.


Workers are in high demand as employers report challenges in locating individuals with the skills and training to fill open positions.
The rapidly changing modern economy will require new skill sets for our future workforce as new technology and automation grows.

  