
    On Monday, October 13, 2008, the President signed the following bills into law:
S. 431, the "Keeping the Internet Devoid of Sexual Predators Act of 2008" or the "KIDS Act of 2008," which requires: sex offenders to provide Internet identifiers, including e-mail addresses, to State sex offender registries; and tasks the Justice Department to establish and maintain a system that allows social networking websites to compare Internet identifiers of its users with those provided to the National Sex Offender Registry;
S. 1738, the "PROTECT Our Children Act of 2008," which requires the Department of Justice to create and implement a National Strategy for Child Exploitation, Prevention, and Interdiction; statutorily establishes the existing Internet Crimes Against Children (ICAC) Task Force Program; and makes other amendments to Federal child pornography laws.
S. 3296, which extends through December 29, 2013, the authority of the United States Supreme Court Police to protect court officials off the Supreme Court grounds;
S. 3325, the "Prioritizing Resources and Organization for Intellectual Property (PRO IP) Act of 2008," which amends civil and criminal intellectual property laws; establishes the position of an Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator appointed by the President in the Executive Office of the President; and authorizes Justice Department grants to assist in addressing intellectual property theft and infringement crimes;
S. 3477, the "Presidential Historical Records Preservation Act of 2008," which establishes a grant program for the preservation of, and public access to, historical records of former Presidents whose archives are not maintained in Federal archival depositories; and contains various other authorities related to the National Archives and Records Administration;
S. 3536, the "Air Carriage of International Mail Act," which allows the United States Postal Service to negotiate terms for international air mail transportation contracts directly with airlines;
S. 3569, the "Judicial Administration and Technical Amendments Act of 2008," which makes miscellaneous changes to the administration and operation of Federal courts;
S. 3598, the "Drug Trafficking Vessel Interdiction Act of 2008," which prohibits the operation of submersible and semi-submersible vessels which are not registered with any nation;
S. 3605, the "Criminal History Background Checks Pilot Extension Act of 2008," which extends through January 30, 2010, a pilot program for certain volunteer organizations that serve children to have fingerprint checks on applicants for positions as volunteers or employees processed through the Fingerprint Identification System of the Federal Bureau of Investigation;
H.R. 1532, the "Comprehensive Tuberculosis Elimination Act of 2008," which makes changes to Department of Health and Human Services grant programs and activities related to the prevention, elimination, and control of tuberculosis;
H.R. 5350, which authorizes the Department of Commerce to: sell or exchange a property in the City of Norfolk, Virginia; and enter into a land lease with Mobile County, Alabama;
H.R. 5618, the "National Sea Grant College Program Amendments Act of 2008," which authorizes appropriations for the Commerce Department's National Sea Grant College Program for FYs 2009-2014; and makes miscellaneous amendments to statutory provisions related to the National Sea Grant College Program;
H.R. 6199, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Kenneth Peter Zebrowski Post Office Building;
H.R. 6229, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Mayor William "Bill" Sandberg Post Office Building;
H.R. 6338, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Amy SPC Daniel Agami Post Office Building;
H.R. 6849, which permits producers to aggregate base acres and reconstitute farms to avoid the current prohibition on receiving various farm payments when the sum of the base acres of a farm is 10 acres or less;
H.R. 6874, which designates a facility of the United States Postal Service as the Lance Corporal Eric Paul Valdepeñas Post Office Building.
  