
    Des Moines, Iowa – Backed by Iowa pastors and faith leaders today, Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann stressed that Iowa voters committed to true conservative values "don't have to settle on life" when choosing a candidate to run against President Obama.
Bachmann spoke with members of the media about her morning tour of the Informed Choices Medical Clinic, which provides services to women dealing with crisis pregnancies.
"We don't have to settle when it comes to the defense of life. As a mother of five biological children and foster mother to 23, I have always been a strong and consistent supporter of pro-life issues from conception to natural death. The people who work at Informed Choices are true champions in the pro-life effort," Bachmann said. "They prove every day that we don't have to settle for the status quo and disastrous consequences of Roe v. Wade."
"The challenges we have ahead of us are enormous and without the support for the protection of life from conception to natural death from pro-life candidates like Michele Bachmann, we cannot move forward," said Jenny Condon, Clinic Director for Informed Choices Medical Clinic. "We need to move away from the culture of death and further our work to eliminate the need for abortion; that's the umbrella for what we are here for."
Pastor Brad Sherman, who helped found the Informed Choices Medical Clinic in 2007 and endorsed Bachmann earlier this year, reiterated the need for a true conservative leader in the White House, "Michele has a strong history on pro-life issues, and I have faith and confidence she can stand up to the political challenges ahead."
Bachmann gathered with Iowa pastors and faith leaders whose endorsement since the Aug. 13 Ames Straw Poll has been vital to continued support from Iowa voters leading up to the state's first-in-the-nation caucus.
"These men and women stood with me because they believe we need to stand up for the values that made our country great," Bachmann said. "I wanted to take this opportunity to thank the Iowa pastors and faith leaders for their support and leadership because they have made a real difference."
  