
    Pool Reports by Seung Min Kim, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




October 29, 202111:46 CEDT

Travel pool report #1 — POTUS departure from ambassador residence 
Rome, Italy
Buon giorno, on the first full day of POTUS's second overseas trip. Most of your pool is pre-positioned in the courtyard of the Vatican, awaiting the arrival of POTUS and FLOTUS, so your ABC TV pool will travel in the motorcade with POTUS (a long one, we are told it is 85 vehicles).
Producer Ben Gittleson reports on behalf of your print pooler that the POTUS motorcade departed Villa Taverna, the U.S. ambassador's residence in Rome, at 11:43 a.m. The pool did not see the Bidens.



October 29, 202112:08 CEDT

Travel pool report #2 — POTUS arrives at Vatican
Vatican City, Holy See
The POTUS motorcade arrived at the courtyard of the Vatican at 11:59 a.m. POTUS and FLOTUS stepped out of the Beast at 12:01 p.m. and shook hands with Monsignor Leonardo Sapienza, the head of Papal Household, then went down a receiving line of about a half-dozen Papal Gentlemen to greet them.
POTUS is wearing a dark blue suit and FLOTUS is wearing a navy skirt suit with a mantilla. The first couple went inside at 12:03 p.m.
From the White House —
Upon arrival at the Vatican, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by Monsignor Leonardo Sapienza, Head of Papal Household.
Details of the motorcade, from the TV pool:
The drive took the motorcade through Rome's city center, where onlookers lined the sidewalks watching, waving, and using their cellphones to record the motorcade. The vehicles passed many of the sights that the president drove past after arriving in the early morning hours today.



October 29, 202112:57 CEDT

Travel pool report #3 — POTUS meets one-on-one with Pope Francis
From the White House —
The President's one on one meeting with His Holiness Pope Francis began around 12:00.



October 29, 202113:24 CEDT

Travel pool report #4 — Attendees in Pope Francis meeting
Vatican City, Holy See
From the White House —
In attendance for the President and the First Lady's meeting with His Holiness Pope Francis:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentThe First LadyT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President and National Security AdvisorMr. Patrick Connell, Charge d'Affairs a.i.T.H. Jennifer O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of StaffT.H. Michael Donilon, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the PresidentT.H. AnnMarie Tomasini, Assistant to the President and Director of Oval Office OperationsT.H. Anthony Bernal, Assistant to the President and Advisor to the First LadyT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, NSCDr. Kevin O'Connor, Physician to the PresidentMs. Asel Roberts, Acting Chief of Protocol of the United States
Holy See ManifestHis Holiness, Pope Francis10 Papal Gentlemen



October 29, 202113:41 CEDT

Travel pool report #5 — POTUS meets with Pope Francis for 90 minutes
Vatican City, Holy See
From the White House —
At 1:30 PM, the one on one meeting with the President and His Holiness Pope Francis ended.
At 1:33 PM, the expanded meeting began.



October 29, 202114:00 CEDT

Travel pool report #6 — FLOTUS departs Vatican
Vatican City, Holy See
At 1:53 p.m., FLOTUS walked out to the courtyard and, after a brief conversation with greeters, departed the Vatican.
POTUS has not left. But the pool is loading in vans imminently, so we will not see departure.
Also, while your pool was holding in the courtyard, Pope Francis, in a small gray car, drove by and left.



October 29, 202114:07 CEDT

Travel pool report #7 — attendees at meeting with Cardinal Parolin
Vatican City, Holy See
From the White House —
The meeting with His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State began at 1:50 PM.
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President and National Security AdvisorMr. Patrick Connell, Charge d'Affairs a.iT.H. Michael Donilon, Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the PresidentT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, NSCMs. Laura Hochla, Special Assistant to the President and Senior and Director for European Affairs, NSC
Holy See ManifestHis Eminence, Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of StateH.E. Most Reverend Paul R. Gallagher, Secretary for Relations with the StatesMonsignor Eric Soviguidi, Desk Officer for the Americans, Vatican Foreign Minister



October 29, 202114:44 CEDT

Travel pool report #8 — Some color from Pope-POTUS meeting 
Vatican City, Holy See —
From a White House official:
The engagement between the two was very warm when the delegation arrived in the room. There was laughter and clear rapport between President Biden and Pope Francis.



October 29, 202114:47 CEDT

Travel pool report #9 — Handout photos 
Vatican City, Holy See
The White House sent the following photos of POTUS meeting with Pope Francis for distribution. As a reminder, the pool was not allowed access into this meeting, so there are no photos from U.S. news photographers.








October 29, 202114:52 CEDT

Travel pool report #10 — POTUS departs Vatican 
Vatican City, Holy See —
The White House says the meeting with His Eminence Cardinal Pietro Parolin, Secretary of State, ended at 2:40 p.m.
TV pooler Ben Gittleson sends along the following details of POTUS departure:
President Biden exited the building at 8:43a ET (2:43 p.m local) and the motorcade started rolling at 8:45a ET (2:45 p.m. local)
We got a relatively close shot from the opposite side of the Beast. We're running to the van and will feed the tape as soon as possible.
A dozen members of the Swiss Guard stood nearby at attention as Biden departed.
Biden was proceeded by several officials from the Vatican and members of the Swiss Guard and followed by members of the US delegation.
Blinken entered the Beast with Biden at 8:43a ET. (2:43 p.m. local)
We're rolling now.



October 29, 202115:03 CEDT

Travel pool report #11 - arrival at Quirinale Palace
Rome, Italy
The POTUS motorcade arrived at Quirinale Palace for bilateral with Italian President Sergio Mattarella at 3 p.m. after an uneventful ride. Hundreds lined the streets of Rome, many taking photos.



October 29, 202115:23 CEDT

Travel pool report #12a — greeters at Quirinale Palace
Rome, Italy
The White House passes this along:
Upon arrival at Quirinale Palace, the President will be greeted by:LTG Roberto Corsini, Military AideDr. Gian Luca Finzi, Deputy Chief of Protocol



October 29, 202115:35 CEDT

Travel pool report #13 — attendees for POTUS- Mattarella bilat
Rome, Italy
From the White House —
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with His Excellency Sergio Mattarella, President of the Italian Republic:
U.S ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony J. Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President and National Security AdvisorMr. Thomas Smitham, Charge d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy RomeT.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian AffairsT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, NSCMs. Laura Holcha, Director for Europe, NSC
Italy ManifestSergio Mattarella, President of the Italian RepublicOn. Luigi Di Maio, Ministro degli Affari Esteri e della Cooperazione InternazionaleCons. Ugo Zampetti, Segretario generale della Presidenza della RepubblicaCons. Gianfranco Astori, Consigliere del Presidente della Repubblica per l'InformazioneAmb. Emanuela D'Alessandro, Consigliere del Presidente della Repubblica per gli Affari DiplomaticiAmb. Mariangela Zappia, Ambasciatrice d'Italia a WashingtonConsigliere d'Ambasciata Fabrizio Saggio, Ufficio Affari Diplomatici
The meeting began around 3:15 PM.



October 29, 202116:00 CEDT

Travel pool report #14 — departing Quirinale Palace
Rome, Italy
The POTUS motorcade departed Quirinale Palace at 3:59 p.m. upon conclusion of POTUS's bilateral with President Mattarella. We are now en route to his next meeting, with Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi.



October 29, 202116:08 CEDT

Travel pool report #15 — arrival at Chigi Palace, details of minor accident involving vehicle in POTUS motorcade
Rome, Italy
The POTUS motorcade arrived at Chigi Palace at 4:07 p.m.
Also, a White House official passes along details of an accident involving a vehicle in the POTUS motorcade earlier today:
A vehicle in the President's motorcade departing Vatican City en route to Quirinale Palace was involved in a minor accident. No serious injuries were sustained however out of an abundance of caution, passengers are being evaluated by US medical personnel.



October 29, 202116:32 CEDT

Travel pool report #16 — more POTUS comments on Pope meeting
Rome, Italy
At the arrival ceremony at Chigi Palace, POTUS commented a bit more on his meeting with Pope Francis.
Asked whether he said a prayer, POTUS said: "I did, and he said one for me."
Asked what he prayed about, POTUS said: "Peace."
Pool was ushered upstairs for a photo spray, where POTUS took more questions about his meeting.
He answered "yes" when ask if the Pope blessed his rosary.
He also said he talked about climate with the Pope: they discussed the "need" and "moral responsibility" to deal with the issue.
He said he did not discuss abortion with the Pope."We just talked about the fact that he was happy I was a good Catholic."
He said he did not take communion today. Asked whether he and Pope Francis discussed the US conference of bishops, POTUS said that's a "private conversation."



October 29, 202116:47 CEDT

Travel pool report #16a — more POTUS quotes about Pope meeting
Rome, Italy
Here are some more POTUS quotes about his meeting with Pope Francis, during a photo avail with Prime Minister Draghi in an upstairs room at Chigi Palace. Please check official transcript for full quotes.
More on climate, POTUS said they discussed the "moral responsibility to have to deal with this."
Fuller quote when asked whether they discussed abortion: "No it didn't. We just talked about the fact that he was happy that I was a good Catholic and … keep receiving communion."
Asked if Pope said he should keep receiving communion, POTUS said "yes."
Thanks to WSJ's Catherine Lucey and Scott Detrow of NPR for their help.



October 29, 202117:07 CEDT

Travel pool report #16b — complete quote from POTUS response to abortion Q
Rome, Italy
Here is the full, complete quote from POTUS when asked whether abortion came up. Thanks to Reuters' Jeff Mason.
Asked if the topic of abortion came up, Biden said: "No it didn't. It came up — we just talked about the fact he was happy that I was a good Catholic and I should keep receiving communion."



October 29, 202116:40 CEDT

Travel pool report #17 — Arrival ceremony at Chigi Palace
Rome, Italy
POTUS entered a courtyard at Chigi Palace at 4:14 p.m., along with FLOTUS, Prime Minister Draghi and Serena Cappello, the spouse of the prime minister.
The two couples stood off on the left side of the courtyard from where the press were positioned, as the roughly 16-member Italian military band played the "Star-Spangled Banner." POTUS and FLOTUS had their hands over their hearts. Then the band played the Italian national anthem.
Then POTUS and Draghi spent a few minutes walking around the courtyard, greeting members of the band and then a separate group of about two dozen military members, holding blue flags. The two couples left the courtyard just before 4:20 p.m.
The White House sends the following—
Upon arrival at Chigi Palace, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:His Excellency Mario Draghi, Prime Minister of the Italian RepublicMs. Serena Cappello, Spouse of Prime Minister Draghi



October 29, 202116:49 CEDT

Travel pool report #18 — Attendees at Draghi bilat
Rome, Italy
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with His Excellency Mario Draghi, Prime Minister of the Italian Republic:
U.S ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the Treasury of the United States of AmericaT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President and National Security AdvisorMr. Thomas Smitham, Charge d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy RomeT.H. Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for International EconomicsT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, NSC
Italy ManifestMario Draghi, Prime Minister of the Italian RepublicH.E. Luigi Di Maio, Minister of Foreign Affairs and International CooperationMr. Antonio Funiciello, Chief of Staff to the Prime MinisterH.E. Luigi Mattiolo, Diplomatic Advisor to the Prime MinisterH.E. Mariangela Zappia, Ambassador of the Italian Republic to the United StatesMr. Alessandro Gonzales, Deputy Diplomatic Advisor to the Prime Minister
The meeting began at 4:23 PM.



October 29, 202116:51 CEDT

Travel pool report #19 — details about POTUS gift to Pope Francis 
Rome, Italy
From a White House official:
On the occasion of their visit to the Holy See, the President and the First Lady presented to His Holiness Pope Francis a historic chasuble in a custom frame with historic marble and White House wood.
This handwoven fiddleback chasuble was commissioned by Gammarelli of Rome in 1930 and has since been utilized by the Society of Jesus in the United States. It is a part of the archival collection of the Holy Trinity Catholic Church in Washington, DC, the oldest Roman Catholic church of the Archdiocese of Washington.
Holy Trinity Church is steeped in American history and has played a significant role in advocating for abolition, desegregation, and civil rights since its inception in 1787. President Abraham Lincoln visited the church; it served as a hospital by the U.S. Federal Government during the American Civil War; and President John F. Kennedy frequently worshiped there.
The chasuble was framed by artisans in Washington, DC and incorporates naturally-fallen wood from the White House grounds and white marble reclaimed from the original pulpit of Holy Trinity Church.
In addition to the chasuble presentation, a donation of winter clothing will be made by the White House to charities in the name of the Holy Father to commemorate the World Day of the Poor on November 14, 2021



October 29, 202117:31 CEDT

Travel pool report #20 — departure from Chigi Palace
Rome, Italy
At 5:30 p.m., the POTUS motorcade departed Chigi Palace.



October 29, 202117:39 CEDT

Travel pool report #21 — arrival at embassy of France
Rome, Italy
The POTUS motorcade arrived at the French embassy in Italy, or the Villa Bonaparte at 5:37 p.m. after another uneventful ride, with passers-by lined up along the streets.



October 29, 202117:47 CEDT

Travel pool report #22 — Macron greets POTUS
Rome, Italy
The Beast pulled into the driveway of the Villa Bonaparte at about 5:42 p.m. POTUS exited and was greeted by an awaiting Macron.
The two leaders stood on steps and posed for the cameras with their arms around each other.
When asked whether he needed to apologize, POTUS responded "to whom?"
Follow up on whether he needs to apologize to Macron, POTUS responded: "We've already talked."
To whom?



October 29, 202118:10 CEDT

Travel pool report #23 — POTUS/Macron bilat
Rome, Italy
The pool was ushered into the POTUS/Macron bilat at Villa Bonaparte at 5:47 p.m.
Macron spoke first in French, for about three minutes as POTUS listened. The two shook hands at the conclusion of Macron's remarks.
Then POTUS spoke. All quotes are rough, please check against transcript.
He said "we have no older" nor "more loyal" nor "decent" ally than France. He told a brief story about his father. POTUS then spoke of the "strong affection" for France and said he wanted to emphasize before the press that France is an "incredible, valued partner" to the United States. "France is value added no matter where it is."
On what happened between the two countries, POTUS said "the answer is — I think what happened was to use an English phrase … clumsy." He added "it was not done with a lot of grace."
POTUS emphasized that "France is an extremely extremely valued partner." He said "I was under the impression that France had been informed long before that the deal was not coming through."
Officials from both governments then started to yell at press to leave the bilat, and your pooler was briefly dragged out of the room as Reuters' Jeff Mason asked Macron a question and the French President was in the middle of responding.
Macron started to answer but press aides spoke over him. Mason had to shout "he is speaking!" so we could stay in the bilat as Macron finished his remarks.
"We clarified together what we had to clarify" Macron said in response to the question, which was if he was satisfied whether the relations with the United States had been repaired."Now what's important is to be sure that such a situation will not be possible for our future""This is an extremely important clarification."
Pool ushered out at about 5:53 p.m.



October 29, 202118:16 CEDT

Travel pool report #23a — one more Macron quote, and a clarification
Thanks to AP's Josh Boak for this one:
Macron: "What really matters now is what we will do together in the coming weeks, the coming months, the coming years."
And a clarification: Villa Bonaparte is the French embassy to the Holy See.



October 29, 202118:32 CEDT

Travel pool report #24 — attendees, start times for POTUS/Macron bilat
From the White House —
At 6:22 PM, the one on one meeting with the President and His Excellency Emmanuel Macron, President of the French Republic ended.
At 6:23 PM, the expanded bilat began.
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with His Excellency Emmanuel Macron, President of the French Republic:
U.S ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the Treasury of the Unites States of AmericaT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President and National Security AdvisorT.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European AffairsT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe, NSCMr. David Fabrycky, Director for NATO and European Affairs, NSC
France ManifestH.E. Emmanuel Macron, President of FranceH.E. Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for European and Foreign AffairsAdmiral Jean-Philippe Rolland, Chief of Military StaffH.E. Emmanuel Bonne, Foreign Policy Adviser to the President of FranceMs. Alice Rufo, Deputy Diplomatic AdviserMs. Cécile Ondoa Abeng, Adviser for North AmericaMs. Anne Sophie Bradelle, International Communication Adviser



October 29, 202119:21 CEDT

Travel pool report #25 — leaving Villa Bonaparte
At 7:20 p.m., the POTUS motorcade departed the Villa Bonaparte.



October 29, 202119:25 CEDT

Travel pool report #26 — Macron bilat meeting length
The POTUS-Macron bilat ended at 7:12 p.m., per the White House.



October 29, 202119:33 CEDT

Travel pool report #27 — back to Villa Taverna and lid 
Rome, Italy
At 7:28 p.m., the POTUS motorcade returned to Villa Taverna, the U.S. ambassador's residence in Rome, and the White House called a travel/photo lid at the same time.
It's been a pleasure serving as your pooler today, and thanks to everyone in the pool, especially WSJ's Catherine Lucey, for their help today. Buona sera!



October 29, 202121:04 CEDT

Travel pool report #28 — Gaggle with SAO on Pope and Macron meetings, Iran tomorrow 
Rome, Italy
Post-lid, a senior administration official gaggled with the pool for about 20 minutes about POTUS's meetings with Pope Francis and French President Emmanuel Macron. The SAO also previewed tomorrow's meeting with the E3 nations — Germany, France and the United Kingdom — on Iran.
ON THE POPE FRANCIS MEETING:
SAO noted that the Cardinal who was tending to the rest of the U.S. delegation exclaimed every eight to 10 minutes, after the first 30 minutes, that the length of the one-on-one was highly unusual.
The SAO declined to elaborate on to what extent abortion was discussed during the private meeting.
Climate was a topic discussed "at length" during the meeting between POTUS and pope Francis, the SAO said, in particular the $100 billion commitment that developed countries were making to developing countries. "The pope was also very focused on the impact of climate on the marginalized and disadvantaged communities of the world," the SAO said. The Pope urged POTUS to "accelerate our ambition" on climate.
On Covid-19, POTUS and pope Francis discussed what the developed world can do to help the rest of the world. The SAO said the Pope was "generally was driving the proposition that this is really an urgent situation and those countries with the capacity to donate more should donate more."
POTUS message on Covid was that the "US is actually trying to move heaven and earth from a production perspective, to get doses out the door as rapidly as possible."
There were two interpreters, one on the U.S. side and one on the Vatican side, in during the one on one meeting, but it's unclear how much they were relied upon.
"I think the word personal is really important in this regard. This was a policy meeting. It was also a personal meeting," SAO said.
On whether the two discussed Pope Francis visiting the us, the SAO said, "not that I know of."
The issue of migration came up in the context of climate change, and the impact it has in migration and refugees.
ON MACRON MEETING —
About 60 percent of the time at Villa Bonaparte was tête-à-tête, 40 percent with delegation. Some of the issues that were discussed include Russia, China, energy, and nuclear issues, and the SAO previewed parts of the readout that will be distributed formally by the White House soon. Neither side "didn't really make any asks" during the bilateral because "we had worked through over the course of the last few weeks a common agenda."
POTUS and Macron spent a "fair amount of time talking about the challenge posed by the rise of China," SAO said. The approach to China is "three dimensional," the SAO said: "the US strategy has elements that are adversarial elements that are competitive and elements that are cooperative. And the European approach is basically the same."
POTUS and Macron also did some coordination ahead of the Iran meeting tomorrow, and also discussed supply chain issues, domestic investment, steel and aluminum tariffs.
"It was a very meaty substantive but I would say broad ranging and strategic conversation," SAO said.
On the state of the U.S.-France relationship, SAO said: "we're moving forward."
"I believe we have done that. I don't worry at all about instability or drift in the us-France relationship." Activities of the last month gave the relationship a "jolt of energy."
"We had some hard conversations in September and October, I think the conversations heading into November will be exciting and engaging."
"There's not any sense that there's some kind of fundamental rift in the relationship, I think, at this point."
ON IRAN MEETING TOMORROW:
SAO stressed that "this is not a meeting for a deliverable."
SAO said: "I think there will be a statement out of the meeting which will send a good public signal, both E-3 plus one unity, but also it will frame up what we think the way forward is. But the main purpose for them getting together -- and this was actually a Merkel initiative --is we're at a critical moment and these four leaders have not actually had a chance to sit and talk about that. And they need to have private space to have a No BS conversation about where we're at and where we need to go. A lot of times, you have .. the meeting is fake, and then you have some deliverables. This is more like this is going to be a serious opportunity to check signals as we head into a really vital period on this issue."




  