
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Diane Lenegan Tomb to be Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development for Public Affairs. Tomb is presently the Senior Vice President for Communications of the Fannie Mae Foundation. Before joining Fannie Mae, Tomb was the Director of the Public Affairs Practice and Marketing Director for the Washington Regional Office of Burson-Marsteller from 1994 to 1997. Tomb served at the U.S. Department of Commerce from 1991 to 1993, first as an Associate Director in the Office of Business Liaison, and then as the Director of Public Affairs for the International Trade Administration. She is a graduate of Mount St. Mary's in Maryland.
The President intends to nominate Ned L. Siegel to be a Member of the Board of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Siegel is the Chairman of NLS Communities, Inc., a Florida based real estate and community development company. Additionally, he serves on the Board of Directors of the Marietta Corporation and Cenetec, L.L.C. Before entering the real estate business, Siegel practiced law at the New Jersey law firm of Kimmelman, Wolff and Samson. Siegel is a graduate of the University of Connecticut and the Dickinson School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Peter B. Teets to be Under Secretary of the Air Force. Presently retired, Teets was the President and Chief Operating Officer of Lockheed Martin Corporation from 1997 to 1999. He previously served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation's Information and Services Sector, a post he held since the Lockheed Martin merger in 1995. Prior to the merger, he was President of Martin Marietta Space Group where he had served since 1963. He is a Fellow of the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics and the American Astronautical Society, as well as a 1999, inductee into the National Academy of Engineering. Teets received both an undergraduate and Master's of Science degree from the University of Colorado.
  