
    Pool Reports by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




October 23, 202209:14

Travel pool #1/Rehoboth
Call time has been moved back two hours and is now at noon.
There is nothing on the president's public schedule until departure at 7:50pm. It is not currently raining in Rehoboth but the streets are wet. And the forecast calls for rain this afternoon and evening. We await a weather call on whether the president will return to DC by helicopter.



October 23, 202211:49

Travel pool #2/Rehoboth update
Call time for the pool has been updated for a second time. It is now 5:15pm.
It is overcast, humid and 60 degrees with rain not currently forecast for a couple of hours.



October 23, 202218:25

Travel pool #3/bad weather in Rehoboth
We have a bad weather call in Rehoboth. The president and first lady will motorcade to Dover AFB and fly Air Force One to Joint Base Andrews.
The travel pool has been swept and is on a bus at Cape Henlopen State Park, near the landing zone/parking lot at Whiskey Beach, waiting for the motorcade to roll.
A weather call has not yet been made for DC. It remains unclear if POTUS will lift from JBA to the White House or motorcade.



October 23, 202219:00

Travel pool #4/rolling from Rehoboth
The presidential motorcade rolled out of the Bidens' Rehoboth neighborhood at 6:57pm in a steady rain. We are headed for Dover AFB.



October 23, 202219:33

Travel pool #5/en route Dover AFB
There's a good weather call in DC, so POTUS will chopper from JBA to the White House.
Meanwhile the motorcade continues from Rehoboth to Dover AFB. So far unremarkable unless you count the "Buckle Up Buttercup" highway alert sign near Milford. Still raining.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady via motorcade en route Dover Air Force Base:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor



October 23, 202219:54

Travel pool #6/Dover AFB
The president boarded Air Force One at 7:49pm with the first lady.
He's wearing a black quilted jacket in the wind and drizzle. Spitting as they say in the UK, about whose next prime minister a question was shouted and ignored, likely unheard in the breeze.
Uneventful but fast and rainy motorcade from Rehoboth to Dover AFB. Next stop JBA.



October 23, 202220:02

Travel pool #7/leaving Dover AFB
We're on the smaller Air Force One. Engines just began to rev.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor



October 23, 202220:52

Travel pool #8/JBA arrival
Air Force One touched down at JBA at 8:29pm after a quick and uneventful flight from Dover AFB.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor



October 23, 202220:47

Travel pool #9/Departing JBA
Air Force One came to a stop at 8:34pm in a light rain.
At 8:40 the Bidens walked down the stairs side by side, holding ln umbrella together, the President on the Dr. Biden's left.
They spoke briefly with greeter
Colonel William McDonald and then boarded Marine One. The wind is as gusty as the downdrafts when pool is positioned on the South Lawn.
A copooler spotted a Philadelphia Phillies jersey under the first lady's jacket. Note that we did not leave Rehoboth until well after they clinched a World Series berth.
Marine One lifted at 8:44. Handing off to intown pool.




 
Pool Reports below by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




October 23, 202221:00

In-town pool report #1 -- POTUS arrival at WH
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 8:54 pm amid light rain.
POTUS and FLOTUS emerged from the helicopter at 8:57 pm. POTUS wore a hat and a jacket and FLOTUS wore a Phillies jersey under her jacket.
POTUS did not stop to talk to the pool. He waved and gave a thumbs up. They enter the White House at 8:57 pm.
Jake Sullivan, following behind, entered the White House shortly after them.
From the White House: Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor



October 23, 202221:03

In-town pool report #2 -- lid
The White House called a lid at 9:01 pm. Have a good night.




  