
    
  Cruz Adds Texas Railroad Commissioner Ryan Sitton, Six Former Perry Supporters and
  Texas Business Leaders to Texas Leadership Team

HOUSTON, Texas – Today at his national campaign headquarters in Houston, presidential candidate Ted Cruz named Lt. Governor Dan Patrick his Texas Chairman for the Cruz for President campaign. Texas Railroad Commissioner Ryan Sitton, a statewide elected official, will join Railroad Commissioner David Porter as Texas Co-Chair of the Cruz for President campaign. In addition, six major financial supporters of former Gov. Rick Perry's joined Cruz's National Finance Team.
With today's announcement, the Cruz for President campaign has secured a significant number of key Texas endorsements, including three statewide elected officials, 41 state lawmakers (more than a third of the GOP delegation), and six Congressmen, indicating the strength of the Cruz organization and deep support across his home state. Texas holds its primary on March 1, when 155 delegates will be awarded.
"It is a tremendous honor for me that Dan has accepted the Texas Chairmanship of my campaign," said Cruz. "Dan is a conservative warrior. He knows and loves Texas and understands how important the Lone Star State is to winning the nomination."
Six major Texas business leaders, who were helping lead the Perry finance team, have agreed to serve on the Cruz National Finance Committee:

Darwin Deason of Dallas, Chairman of Deason Capital Services
Doug Deason of Dallas, the son of Darwin, and Chairman and CEO of Deason Capital Services
Brint Ryan of Dallas, Chairman and CEO of Ryan Industries Inc.
Lee Roy and Tandy Mitchell of Dallas – Lee Roy is the Chairman of the Board of Cinemark
Jim Lee of Houston, President of Ascendant Advisors, LLC

"Rick Perry was a great governor for the State of Texas," said Ted Cruz. "These six Texas business leaders who supported the governor speak to the kind of man Perry is. I am humbled and honored to have their support and the support from major business leaders across the state of Texas."
"We as a group wanted to stay together to support a true conservative candidate for president — one who will stand up for and defend the Constitution. We did our research and concluded unanimously that Ted Cruz, who went to DC and did what he promised Texans he would do, has the best chance of winning the Republican nomination and the general election next year," said Darwin Deason. "We are proud to support him."
The Cruz campaign had had enormous success raising money from Texas donors. To date it has raised more than $10.9 million from Texas, considerably more than any other candidate in the race. With the welcomed additions to Cruz's National Finance Team, it will only continue to grow. Cruz, a top-tier national fundraiser, finished the third quarter reporting $13.8 million, the most cash on hand of any of the Republican candidate for president.
  