
    'Youth for Ron Paul' to host its first ever event in the Midwest in key early state
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — 2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul will address University of Iowa supporters and community members at a special youth-oriented event held on the university's campus.
The event, which is free and open to supporters of all ages, will be held at the University of Iowa Memorial Union in the Main Lounge on Friday, October 21st. Doors will open to the public at 7:15 p.m. To enter 15 minutes early, RSVP for the University of Iowa event featuring Dr. Paul at http://www.ronpaul2012.com/.
"No other candidate running for the GOP nomination generates support from students like Ron Paul does, and it is the youth vote that will help determine the 2012 election. That's why Ron Paul enjoys bringing his message directly to students. Young people who want authentic change gravitate to his reliable message of peace, prosperity and individual liberty," said Edward King, National Youth Coordinator for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
"Let me add that it is an honor to add to the festivities surrounding the University of Iowa's homecoming celebration with Ron Paul's campus visit," said Mr. King.
Youth for Ron Paul (YFP), an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign, launched on Wednesday, September 7th and since its inception more than 7,100 people signed up to join the campaign and get involved, forming more than 100 chapters.
The University of Iowa event is the third major YFP event, taking place two days after a planned visit to the University of Nevada, Las Vegas. Last month, Dr. Paul spoke to a crowd of more than 1,300 Louisiana State University students, supporters, and community members in Baton Rouge prior to the grand opening of his Louisiana campaign headquarters.
"Since the announcement of Youth for Ron Paul, we've seen tremendous interest and excitement from students across the nation. It's inspiring to be able to work with young people dedicated to their principles and Ron Paul's campaign," said Ani DeGroot of Iowa.
"President Obama successfully organized young people in 2008, but he has failed to deliver on his campaign promises. Young people now understand Ron Paul is the only candidate running who will significantly change Washington's failed policies at home and abroad," said Ms. DeGroot, who is on a leave of absence from the University of Iowa so she can serve as the campaign's Midwest Regional Director for Youth for Ron Paul.
To learn more and sign up for Youth for Ron Paul, please visit: www.youthforpaul.com and "like" the Facebook page found at: www.Facebook.com/youthforpaul.
  