
    
The Benghazi Committee, explained.
Hillary is on Capitol Hill today, testifying in front of the House Select Benghazi Committee. Here's what it's all about.
What happened in Benghazi
On September 11, 2012, a group of Islamic militia members attacked a U.S. diplomatic outpost in Benghazi, Libya. Four Americans were killed in the terrorist attack: U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens, Sean Smith, Glen Doherty, and Tyrone Woods.
For Hillary, who was serving as secretary of state at the time, the tragedy is personal. She was the one who had asked the late Chris Stevens to serve as ambassador to Libya. She was with President Obama at Andrews Air Force Base when Marines brought home the caskets of the four Americans. Anyone who knows Hillary knows she isn't the kind of person to stand around wringing her hands after a tragedy—she leapt into action immediately to prevent anything like this from ever happening again.
The Benghazi Committee is the eighth—yes, eighth—congressional review of the tragedy.
The events in Benghazi have been scrutinized by countless panels, news organizations, and government agencies. After the attack, Hillary set up a nonpartisan panel known as the Accountability Review board (ARB) to investigate. The panel made dozens of recommendations for improvement. By the time Hillary left office, every single reform was on its way to being implemented.
After the ARB, seven congressional panels have also completed investigations. Five were led by Republicans. None found any wrongdoing. But even with these conclusive findings, House Republicans approved an unlimited budget—yup, we're talking about your taxpayer dollars—for an eighth congressional review. Enter the House Select Benghazi Committee.
The House Select Benghazi Committee has one goal.
Now, if you're wondering why Republicans are still at it even after the thorough reviews—or if you're thinking that sounds a little fishy—you're onto something. Over the past few weeks, a number of key Republicans—from House Majority Leader Kevin McCarthy to New York's Rep. Richard Hanna—have copped to the truth about why this committee was established in the first place: to "go after" Hillary Clinton and to hurt her presidential candidacy. A whistleblower has even come forward to say that he was fired because he ?objected to how partisan the inquiry was.

Trey Gowdy, the chair of the committee, has predicted the probe will continue well into 2016. Their aim is clear: hurt Hillary's chances of winning the presidential election. And for those of you who are curious, no, the committee has not been able to produce any new facts about the attack.
What you'll hear today


  " No one wants to find out what happened more than I do."Hillary, October 24, 2012
  

Hillary's first priority is to get to the bottom of what happened in Benghazi. That's the right thing to do—and the way to make sure it doesn't happen again. That's why she has already testified on Capitol Hill about the tragedy (twice, in fact), and she has been asking to testify before the this committee for more than a ?year so that the public can hear her answers.
Republicans, on the other hand, are going to exploit whatever they can to mislead voters about Hillary's record. They'll grill her about emails and anything else they can think of to discredit her.
But here's what Hillary is going to do: stay focused, clarify the facts, and offer some lessons that we can learn to protect Americans going forward. The men and women who serve our country deserve nothing less.
  