
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced additions to the Nevada Romney for President organization. These three staff members will join previously announced State Director, Joe Brezny, and Senior Advisor, Ryan Erwin, and a rapidly growing grassroots network of volunteers committed to delivering victory for Governor Romney in the Silver State. They will build Governor Romney's grassroots organization in Nevada, as well as coordinate volunteer efforts for Governor Romney leading up to the Nevada Caucuses next year.
"Nevada will play an important role in deciding the next Republican presidential candidate, and I look forward to working with this talented team to bring conservative change to Washington," said Governor Romney. "With their hard work on Election Day, every voter will know I will bring fiscal responsibility to Washington, strengthen families, and keep our military strong."
Background On The Nevada Romney For President Staff:
Cory Drumright (Southern Nevada Political Coordinator): Cory will manage all volunteer activities in the Las Vegas area, overseeing phone banking, community outreach, and coalition management. Prior to joining the Romney for President campaign, he was Student Body President at the College of Southern Nevada. Before entering college, Cory served as a Corporal in the United States Marine Corps.
Marissa Pugmire (Northern Nevada Political Coordinator): Marissa will coordinate day-to-day campaign activities for Washoe and surrounding counties in the Reno area. During the 2006 election cycle, Marissa managed logistics and assignments for more than 100 volunteers deployed through the Republican National Committee's 72-hour task force, as well as coordinating phone banking and direct mail activities statewide for Republican candidates.
Kriston Whiteside (Rural Nevada Political Coordinator): Kriston will coordinate campaign activities for 10 rural counties from her hometown in the Elko area. She previously worked on the Nevada Bush Cheney '04 campaign where she helped recruit volunteers, run phone banks, and assisted in event coordination. She is a recent law school graduate and was President of the College Republicans at the University of Nevada, Reno.
  