
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

A gratifying sign of our continuing economic upswing is the greatly improved housing picture. The strength and ingenuity of private enterprise, the efficiency and liquidity of our capital markets, and sound government policies have brought decent and affordable housing to the overwhelming majority of Americans. The opportunity to own a home or to live in decent rental housing strengthens the family, the community, and the Nation. It gives individual Americans a stake in the local community and encourages responsible political involvement.
Since World War II, the housing industry has made an immense contribution to the economic prosperity of the United States. It has created millions of productive jobs, creating demand for goods and services, and generated billions of dollars in tax revenues.
Shelter is one of the most basic human needs, and therefore encouraging the production of decent affordable housing must be a primary concern at all levels of government. It is, then, fitting to reaffirm our national commitment to livable housing and family home ownership and to recognize the multiple economic benefits engendered by the current housing recovery.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 197, has designated the week beginning October 6, 1985, through October 13, 1985, as "National Housing Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 6, 1985, as National Housing Week. I call upon the Governors, Mayors of our cities, and people of this Nation to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  