
    Mitt Romney announced today the support of former Attorneys General William Barr and Michael Mukasey, former Deputy Attorneys General George Terwilliger and Mark Filip, and former Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal Division Alice Fisher.
In addition to their deep leadership experience at the Department of Justice, these distinguished attorneys have extensive judicial, prosecutorial, and private practice experience. They will advise Governor Romney on all matters related to the rule of law and will co-chair the campaign's Law Enforcement Advisory Group.
"Bill Barr, Michael Mukasey, George Terwilliger, Mark Filip, and Alice Fisher have served this nation with distinction at the highest levels of federal law enforcement," Governor Romney said. "I am honored to have their support and advice as we address the range of pressing legal issues facing the country."
Barr, Mukasey, Terwilliger, Filip, and Fisher issued this joint statement: "Mitt Romney deeply understands the importance of maintaining the integrity of our laws and vigorously enforcing them. His record as Governor demonstrates his commitment to the security of the people he is charged to defend and to the rule of law as the basis of a free society. We look forward to advising Governor Romney and we are proud to support him."
Background on Barr, Mukasey, Terwilliger, Filip, and Fisher:

William Barr Served As U.S. Attorney General From 1991 To 1993. Barr, a graduate of Columbia University and the George Washington University Law School, served as Deputy Attorney General and Assistant Attorney General for the Office of Legal Counsel under President George H.W. Bush. He also served on the White House staff of President Ronald Reagan.


Michael Mukasey Served As U.S. Attorney General From 2007 To 2009. Mukasey, a graduate of Columbia University and Yale Law School, was Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York and served on the district court for two decades. He is a former Assistant U.S. Attorney and is a partner at Debevoise & Plimpton LLP.


George Terwilliger Served As U.S. Deputy Attorney General From 1992 To 1993. Terwilliger, a graduate of Seton Hall University and Antioch School of Law, served as Acting U.S. Attorney General and as a U.S. Attorney. He is a partner at White & Case LLP.


Mark Filip Served As U.S. Deputy Attorney General From 2008 To 2009. Filip, a graduate of the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign and Harvard Law School, served as a U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Illinois, Acting U.S. Attorney General, and an Assistant U.S. Attorney. He also taught at the University of Chicago Law School. He is a partner at Kirkland & Ellis LLP.


Alice Fisher Served As Assistant Attorney General In Charge Of The Criminal Division From 2005 To 2008. Fisher, a graduate of Vanderbilt University and the Catholic University of America's Columbus School of Law, served as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Criminal Division under President George W. Bush and as Deputy Special Counsel to a U.S. Senate Special Committee. She is a partner at Latham & Watkins LLP.

  