
    
  
  
  
  
Las Vegas, NV — Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann and entrepreneur Donald Trump discussed vital economic issues with thousands of voters across the country tonight in a unique tele-town hall. The Bachmann campaign invited Mr. Trump to co-host the call as an admired and respected leader in business and politics.
"This is the new wave of political work, this is our town hall meeting," Trump said, kicking off the call. "In the old days you had to go to the town, this is amazing."
"Mr. Trump and I agree that our economy has suffered greatly under the current administration and President Obama should be a one-term president," Bachmann said. "We look forward to hearing the concerns of people across the country and sharing our ideas for turning the economy around."
Ann from St. Paul is a small business owner who asked what could be done to help small businesses.
"Small business is what it's all about, they are the big job creators in this country," Trump said. "Obamacare is a total disaster, wait 'til that hits you, that's going to be a real beauty."
"I introduced the bill to get rid of Obamacare and Dodd Frank, also known as the Jobs and Housing Destruction Act," Bachmann said. "Whether it's credit from the bank or Obamacare dealing with health care, that's what's killing small businesses."
Barry from Pennsylvania credited Trump for being a profound voice in calling out the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and China.
"Nobody has really gone wild about China, and nobody has talked about OPEC," Trump said. "These are guys that sit around a table and set the price of oil, basically they suck the blood out of you every time the economy starts getting good."
Dawn from Arkansas had concerns about Obamacare, asking if Trump and Bachmann wanted to see it repealed.
"I think it will be repealed, it's too bad to be continued. I think it will happen it should happen quickly," Trump said. "It's unfair to have this important issue lingering and companies don't know how to prepare for it."
"I have the bill to repeal Obamacare and I have said from day one that I will not stop until I repeal Obamacare," Bachmann said.
One caller asked Bachmann what she would do as president to fight illegal immigration.
"I would enforce the laws in the books, the problem is they haven't been enforced, and I would build a fence," Bachmann said. "I was in Arizona today and they are talking about people being killed down there. We can't joke about this issue, we can't have magnets to attract illegals to our country."
Alice from New Hampshire asked about the silence from Republicans on Wall Street protests.
"Those camping out in Wall Street – many are just having a good time at other people's expense. Many didn't know why they were there," Trump said. "At some point something is going to have to be done."
Both Bachmann and Trump agree that the Obama administration has done tremendous damage to American's reputation on the world stage.
"Iran is waiting to take over our oil reserves because our leaders are stupid. We are not smart people, we have pathetic leadership," Trump said.
"After all the money we have poured into Iraq, Iran wants to be the dominant partner in the Middle East region and this is what President Obama failed to appreciate."
Another feature of the call was to gauge voters' opinions on what could be done to turn around America's economy. Callers listed the following: cutting spending, repealing Obamacare, legalizing American energy production, cutting taxes, and enforcing immigration laws.
  