
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 26
In the evening, the President traveled from San Jose, CA, to Los Angeles, CA.
September 27
In the morning, the President traveled to San Antonio, TX. In the late afternoon, he traveled to Houston, TX. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
September 28
The President declared an emergency in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges beginning on September 28 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges on September 25 and continuing.
The President declared an emergency in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges on September 28 and continuing.
The President announced that he has authorized the Federal Emergency Management Agency to provide direct Federal assistance to Louisiana at 100 percent Federal funding for the first 72 hours for damage relating to Hurricane Georges.
September 29
In the morning, the President met with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority in the Oval Office. Later, he met with National Security Adviser Samuel Berger and Minister of Foreign Affairs Tang Jiaxuan of China in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Albert S. Jacquez to be Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation at the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ira G. Peppercorn to be Director, Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring at the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Isadore Rosenthal to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ashish Sen to be Director of the Bureau of Transportation Statistics at the Department of Transportation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey S. Merrifield to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint F. Duane Ackerman to the President's Export Council.
September 30
In the morning, the President received the final report of the Assassination Records Review Board in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth W. Kizer to be Under Secretary for Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard A. Grafmeyer and Gerald M. Shea to be members of the Social Security Advisory Board.
The President declared a major disaster in Alabama and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges on September 25 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Los Angeles, CA, and San Francisco, CA, on October 20-21, and that he will travel to Fayetteville, AR, to attend the dedication ceremony for the Northwest Regional Airport on November 6.
October 1
The President announced his intention to nominate Phyllis K. Fong to be Inspector General of the Small Business Administration.
The President declared a major disaster in Mississippi and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges on September 25 and continuing.
October 2
In the morning, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA, and in the evening, he attended a Democratic National Committee reception and dinner at City Hall. Later, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Maria Borrero to be Director of the Office for Victims of Crime at the Justice Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward J. Gleiman to be Chair and Commissioner and Dana B. Covington to be Commissioner of the Postal Rate Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Eugene A. Ludwig as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
The White House announced that the President will meet with Chancellor-elect Gerhard Schroeder of Germany at the White House on October 9.
  