
    President Bush Announced His Intention to Nominate the Following Individuals to Serve as Members of the National Science Board
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to serve as members of the National Science Board:
Ray M. Bowen of Texas is the former President of Texas A&M University. Prior to his arrival at Texas A&M, Dr. Bowen was the Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs at Oklahoma State University. From 1990 to 1991, he served as Deputy Assistant Director for Engineering at the National Science Foundation. Dr. Bowen spent from 1983 to 1989 at the University of Kentucky, where he was the Dean of the College of Engineering, the Director of the Center for Robotics and Manufacturing Systems, and the Director of the Center for Applied Energy Research. Dr. Bowen served in the United States Air Force from 1961 to 1964.
Jo Anne Vasquez of Arizona is currently an Author and National Science Consultant. Previously, Dr. Vasquez was the Elementary Science Resource Teacher for the Mesa Public School District, and spent many years teaching science education to primary and intermediate level classes. From 1985 to 1998, Dr. Vasquez was a faculty member at Arizona State University in Tempe, Arizona. She is the former President of both the International Council of Science Education and the National Science Teachers Association.
Steven C. Beering of Indiana is the former President, and the current President Emeritus of Purdue University. Prior to his work at Purdue, Dr. Beering served for a decade as Dean of Medicine and Director of the Indiana University Medical Center. He holds appointments as Professor of Medicinal Chemistry and Molecular Pharmacology at Purdue University. He also serves as Chairman of the Purdue Research Foundation. Dr. Beering is a former regent of the National Library of Medicine and the former Chairman of the Association of American Medical Colleges and the Association of American Universities.
Barry C. Barish of California is currently a Linde Professor of Physics at the California Institute of Technology. Dr. Barish has been at the Institute of Technology since 1963 when he arrived as a Research Fellow. He was named the Maxine and Ronald Linde Professor of Physics in 1991. Dr. Barish is a member of the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-wave Observatory and the High Energy Physics Advisory Panel.
Daniel E. Hastings of Massachusetts is presently the Associate Director of the Engineering Systems Division at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He also currently serves as Professor of Engineering Systems and is the Director of MIT's Technology & Policy Program. From 1997 to 1999, Dr. Hastings served as the Air Force Chief Scientist, and was honored with the Air Force Distinguished Civilian Award in 1997 and 1999.
Kenneth M. Ford of Florida is currently the Director of the Institute for Human and Machine Cognition at the University of West Florida. From 1997 to 1999, Dr. Ford served as Director of the NASA Center of Excellence for Information Technology. He is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the Association for Computing Machinery.
Delores M. Etter of Maryland is presently a Professor of Electrical Engineering at the United States Naval Academy. From June 1998 through July 2001, Dr. Etter served as the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Science and Technology and previously served on the faculty at the University of Colorado and the University of New Mexico. She is also currently a member of the National Academy of Engineering and the Defense Science Board.
Douglas D. Randall of Missouri is currently a Professor of Biochemistry and Director of the Interdisciplinary Program on Plant Biochemistry-Physiology at the University of Missouri. Dr. Randall previously served as Assistant Professor for Agricultural Chemistry at the University of Missouri as well. He is currently a member of the American Society of Biological Chemistry and the American Chemical Society.
  