
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest television ad, entitled "Hypo." The ad highlights Barack Obama's practice of calling every question about his record a lie while he launches false and misleading attacks against John McCain. That is the type of hypocrisy we expect to see at tonight's debate in Nashville. The ad will be televised nationally. 
VIEW THE AD HERE: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kIlUaKIB07E 
Script For "Hypo" (TV :30) 
ANNCR: Who is Barack Obama? 
KMOV TV ANCHOR (VIDEO): Obama's presidential campaign is asking Missouri law enforcement to target anyone who lies or runs a misleading television ad. 
ANNCR: How hypocritical.
Obama's Social Security attack was called "a falsehood."
His health care attack ... "misleading".
Obama's stem cell attack ... "not true".
Barack Obama. He promised better. He lied. 
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message. 
AD FACTS: Script For "Hypo" (TV :30) 
ANNCR: Who is Barack Obama? KMOV TV ANCHOR (VIDEO): Obama's presidential campaign is asking Missouri law enforcement to target anyone who lies or runs a misleading television ad. 
Watch The KMOV TV Report Here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=F2p4kohUP3I 
ANNCR: How hypocritical. Obama's Social Security attack was called "a falsehood." 
FactCheck.org: Barack Obama's Social Security Attacks Are A "Falsehood Sure To Frighten Seniors." "A new Obama ad characterizes the 'Bush-McCain privatization plan' as 'cutting Social Security Benefits in half.' This is a falsehood sure to frighten seniors who rely on their Social Security checks. In truth, McCain does not propose to cut those checks at all." (Lori Robertson and Brooks Jackson, "Scaring Seniors," FactCheck.org, http://www.factcheck.org , 9/19/08) 
ANNCR: His health care attack ... "misleading". 
FactCheck.org: Barack Obama Ad "Falsely Claims" That John McCain Wants To Deregulate Healthcare Like Banking. "An Obama-Biden ad falsely claims McCain says he wants to 'do the same to our health care' that 'Wall Street deregulation' has done to the banking industry. ... Obama used this misleading accusation on the campaign trail over the weekend." ("Out Of Context On Health Care," FactCheck.org, http://www.factcheck.org , 9/22/08) 
ANNCR: Obama's stem cell attack ... "not true". Barack Obama. He promised better. He lied. JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message. 
ABC News: Obama Stem Cell Ad Is "Not True." "Thus, when Obama's radio ad says, 'John McCain has stood in the way ... he's opposed stem cell research,' it is misleading voters by not pointing out that McCain changed his mind on the issue seven years ago and currently supports stem cell research. The ad cleverly uses the word 'has' to imply that McCain still opposes the research -- which is not true." (Jake Tapper, "From the Fact Check Desk: Stem Cell Selling," ABC News' "Political Punch" Blog, http://blogs.abcnews.com , Posted 9/23/08)
  