
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Gastonia, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped North Carolina families and workers.

President Trump fought to give the people of North Carolina the resources and help they needed to fight the coronavirus.
The Trump Administration's Paycheck Protection Program protected 1.2 million North Carolina jobs and has provided more than $12.2 billion worth of loans to over 129,000 businesses.
5.1 million North Carolinians have received Economic Impact Payments totaling more than $8.6 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing up to $4 billion worth of aid to the state of North Carolina and more than $919 million to 6,905 health care providers in the state.

North Carolina's businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership.

President Trump's historic tax cuts, deregulation, and pro-growth policies helped build a stronger economy for North Carolina workers and businesses.
In the last 5 months, North Carolina added 320,000 jobs back following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus.
In the first three years of the Trump Administration, North Carolina added over 235,000 jobs, including 11,900 manufacturing jobs. While Joe Biden was vice president, North Carolina lost 13,200 manufacturing jobs.
252 North Carolina communities have been designated as Opportunity Zones thanks to the Trump tax reform law, driving new private investments into distressed and predominantly minority areas.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America First trade deals, providing a massive boost to North Carolina's economy.

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost North Carolina's economy and deliver new jobs to the state.

North Carolina exports more than $10 billion annually in goods to Canada and Mexico.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports more than 376,000 jobs in the state, including nearly 32,000 manufacturing jobs.


President Trump is defending North Carolina farmers and agricultural producers from China by providing more than $194 million in direct USDA payments to farmers to offset the damage of China's unfair trade practices.

But Joe Biden's radical, far-left agenda will decimate North Carolina workers and families.

Biden will raise taxes on the middle class. His plan calls for raising taxes by $4 trillion and it would hit more than 80 percent of American taxpayers.
Biden has promised to "end" fossil fuels and American energy production. The oil, gas, and coal industries support over 144,000 jobs in North Carolina and contribute over $13 billion to the state's economy each year.

One third of North Carolina's households rely on fossil fuels to heat their homes.
?


Joe Biden's plans endanger the private health insurance that over 5.3 million North Carolinians rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 24 of North Carolina's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.


Joe Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. In North Carolina, more than 100,000 students are enrolled in over 170 charter schools

  