
    
October 12, 2015
Marco wrapped up a trip through New Hampshire last week, meeting voters, doing traditional house parties, visiting a tech firm, and getting lots of media coverage. NBC News reports that he was received "very well" throughout the whole trip:
First off, on Tuesday, Marco stopped by a backyard party in Bedford, N.H., with more than 200 attendees, where he told voters he was the candidate with fresh ideas, and outlined his vision for a New American Century.
The Boston Herald reports:

"This election is about going in a different direction," Rubio said in the backyard of a farm. "If we just keep electing the same people with the same ideas, nothing is going to change. "We must now turn the page as a party and as a country," he added. "The time has come to open the way to leaders with new ideas that are relevant to the discussions, the challenges and the opportunities of the 21st century."
Here's a recap of Marco's visit from local station WMUR:
On Wednesday in Manchester, Marco visited with employees at Dyn, an online infrastructure company, where he shared his vision for a New American Economy in the 21st Century.
The Concord Monitor reports:

Speaking in an updated Manchester mill building to employees at one of New Hampshire's most well-known tech companies, Marco Rubio said government needs to modernize its policies to help startups and the "sharing economy" grow Wednesday. "We want to make America the easiest, the fastest and the best place in the world to come up with a new idea and turn it into reality in the business world," the Republican candidate for president told employees at Dyn. "Today, in this globally competitive economy, we have some policies that are making it harder, not easier."
Marco also visited with the New Hampshire Union Leader, the state's biggest paper:

More laws, such as tighter background checks, would not have prevented the murder of nine at a community college in Oregon last week, Rubio said in an interview Tuesday with the New Hampshire Union Leader. "This is a deep societal issue," he said. "It's not what people are using to kill people, it's why are they doing it? That's the issue." The U.S. senator from Florida said mental health issues are real and must be addressed. But he said the problem of gun violence is linked to a crumbling of values that are first instilled and then reinforced by strong families and communities.
That night in Dover, at a town hall meeting, Marco told the audience about his plan to cut taxes, replace ObamaCare, and reform our education system.

Packed house for our New Hampshire town hall. Sorry to all those who couldn't get in, Fire Marshall said the crowd was too big!
A photo posted by Marco Rubio For President (@marcorubiofla) on Oct 7, 2015 at 11:49am PDT
The building was so packed, the fire marshal had to turn people away!
Wednesday night in Wolfeboro, Marco had another town hall meeting, also packed.

Marco Rubio, concluding two-day NH swing with a town hall in Wolfeboro. pic.twitter.com/IgKOhZyWxT
— Matt Viser (@mviser) October 7, 2015
Last, Marco did a sit-down with Boston's NBC station, which aired Thursday:
In all, it was a great opportunity for Marco to connect with New Hampshire voters, hear from them, and get his message out about a New American Century.
If you live in the area, Marco's going to be back soon: This Wednesday, October 14, he'll be back in the state, to do events in Derry and Portsmouth. Click here for details about Derry; click here for details about Portsmouth.
  