
    On Sunday, October 28, 2018, the South Lawn will fill with little ghosts and goblins, witches, dragons, and other imaginative costumes as the Trump Administration celebrates this year's Halloween at the White House.
Gates will be open to military families, and local schoolchildren with their parents from 4:30 to 7:30 PM (tickets were distributed by the Department of Education and the White House Military Office).
Cornstalks as tall as the Truman balcony will hang from the White House columns, while colorful fall foliage drapes the South Portico staircases. A sprawling harvest of decorative pumpkins, gourds, and hay bales will be on display for the trick-or-treaters.
The President and First Lady will hand out commemorative candy in front of the South Portico, and several departments and agencies will be in attendance along with a variety of fun items and activities for the children to participate in. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) will have a moon carpet set up on the South Lawn, and robotics displays will be set up by First Lego Robotics League from the Department of Education. The Department of Transportation will hand out paper airplanes, the Department of Agriculture will feature a tractor for the kiddos to explore, and the Department of Health and Human Services will have emergency vehicles on display. Children will also be able to see the Presidential Limo known as "The Beast," which is being brought in by the United States Secret Service.
Before departing the grounds, children will be invited to explore a hay bale maze.
Adding to the festive holiday atmosphere, the Rolling Strings – the United States Air Force Band — will play traditional Halloween songs and modern tunes.
Please note the following items are not allowed on the White House grounds:

Aerosols of any kind
Animals (except guide dogs)
Any pointed object
Backpacks (oversized)
Balloons
Beverages of any kind
Duffle bags and/or suitcases
Electric stun guns
Fireworks / firecrackers
Food of any kind
Guns / ammunition
Insulated metal containers
Knives of any kind
Mace
Selfie sticks
Smoking (including e-cigarettes)
Tablets (including iPads)
Toy weapons of any kind
Water bottles

The Secret Service reserves the right to prohibit any other personal items. However, strollers, wheelchairs, umbrellas (no metal tips), and cameras are permitted. All items needed for medical purposes will be permitted on the tour (such as wheelchairs, electric scooters, glucose tablets, and EpiPens). Please identify and explain all items needed for medical purposes to Secret Service agents upon arrival.
In the event of inclement weather, the event will be moved to Monday October 29, 2018. Please call the 24-hour information line at (202) 456-7041 to check on the status of the event.
  