
    The Clinton campaign announced today the formation of the Arizona Women for Hillary Council. The Council is made up of women from across the state who will be active leaders in Arizona, speaking to their friends, family and associates about this election, and helping to grow the network of women across America supporting Hillary Clinton's campaign.
This announcement is part of the campaign's week long focus on Women Changing America. During the week, the campaign is highlighting the decisive role women can play in this election, discussing issues important to women, and celebrating the ways that women are changing America everyday.
"In 35 years as an advocate for women, children and families, I know that women can make a powerful difference," Clinton said. "Women are changing America and I am so proud to welcome the Arizona Women for Hillary Council to our campaign. Working together, we will address the issues of concern to women and families, and how we can make the changes America needs."
Members of the Arizona Women for Hillary Council will join Hillary for a conference call this week. They are encouraged to be ambassadors for Hillary by reaching out to their networks on Hillary's behalf while also educating and empowering others to make history by making Hillary our 44th President.
"I am honored to join the Arizona Women for Hillary Council," said Rep. Rebecca Rios. "She has the experience and qualifications to lead our country, and has demonstrated a deep commitment to the issues that challenge our families and our communities. Whether it's fighting make sure all Americans have access to quality, affordable health care, for work-family policies that allow flexibility for parents, or equal pay for equal work for all women, you can count on Hillary to lead the charge."
Hillary kicked off the week with an appearance on The View and spoke at the Eleanor Roosevelt Legacy Committee's Annual Fall Campaign Luncheon in New York. On Tuesday, she traveled to New Hampshire to announce a new policy proposal to help parents balance work and family life. On Wednesday, nearly 1,000 women contributors from 47 states around the country will convene for a women's summit in support of the Clinton campaign – a full-day event that will raise well over $1 million. And on Thursday, Hillary will discuss the importance of health care for women when she participates in the Presidential Candidate Forums organized by the Federation of American Hospitals and Families USA and hosts a conference call with health care professionals from the American Medical Women's Association.
The week's events underscore why Hillary enjoys such deep support among women voters by emphasizing how her strength and experience make her the candidate best able to deliver change on the issues most important to them.
The members of the Arizona Women for Hillary Council reflect Hillary's vast and diverse supporters, spanning all occupations and communities.
Hillary's Arizona Women for Hillary Leadership Council includes:


Paula Aboud, Arizona State Senator
Amanda Aguirre, Arizona State Senator
Marsha Arzberger, State Senate Minority Leader
Martha Garcia, Arizona State Representative
Pam Grissom, Community Activist
JoJene Mills, Attorney at Law
Rebecca Rios, Arizona State Representative
Pamela K. Sutherland, Community Activist
Mary Rose Garrido Wilcox, Maricopa County Supervisor
Dana Marie Kennedy, Executive Director, Emerge Arizona
List in formation

Hillary's Arizona Women for Hillary Council includes:


Allison Bones, Phoenix
Anne Groth, Phoenix
Arjelia Gomez, Phoenix
BJ Brooks, Phoenix
Bree Boehlke, Sun City
Brooke Wendt, Phoenix
Christina Forrester-Lunsford, Apache Junction
Dana Kennedy, Phoenix
Debra Boehlke, Sun City
Edna Ellis, Glendale
Gina Flores, Phoenix
Gretchen Baer, Bisbee
Irene Rasmussen, Phoenix
Jamie Patton Powell, Mesa
Jenna Harvey, Phoenix
Jill Mapstead, Phoenix
Joell Ireland, Scottsdale
JoJene Mills, Tucson
Judith Leonard, Tucson
Judy Nagle, Tucson
Judy Silberman, Scottsdale
Katherine Jacobson, Tucson
Kathryn Mitchell, Phoenix
Katie Hobbs, Phoenix
Lesli Surette, Phoenix
Linda Yoskowitz, Flagstaff
Lisa Palisano, Apache Junction
Manya Paul, Scottsdale
Maria Brinson-Sampson, Phoenix
Martha Mertz, Sedona
Mary Schnack, Sedona
Mattea Kramer, Prescott
Michele Oglesby, Prescott
Michelle Hernandez, Laveen
Nancy O'Connor, Tucson
Pam Grissom, Tucson
Pamela Sutherland, Tucson
Sande Zeig, Tucson
Sandra Del Tiempo, Cave Creek
Sheila Tobias, Tucson
Stephanie Sheredy, Surprise
Sue Tucker, Tucson
List in formation...

  