
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Samuel Wright Bodman, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury. He currently serves as Deputy Secretary of Commerce. Prior to joining the administration, Dr. Bodman served as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Cabot Corporation. Earlier in his career, he was President and Chief Operating Officer of Fidelity Investments and served as Director of the Fidelity Group of Mutual Funds. Dr. Bodman also previously served as Director of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T.) School of Engineering Practice and is a former member of the M.I.T. Commission on Education. Dr. Bodman earned his bachelor's degree from Cornell University and his Ph.D. from M.I.T.
The President intends to nominate Eugene Welch Hickok, Jr., of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Secretary of Education. Dr. Hickok currently serves as Under Secretary of Education. Prior to joining the Administration, he was Secretary of Education for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Dr. Hickok previously served as Director of the Clarke Center for Interdisciplinary Study of Contemporary Issues and as Professor of Political Science at Dickinson College. Earlier in his career, he was appointed by former President Reagan to the National Graduate Fellows Fellowship Board. Dr. Hickok earned his bachelor's degree from Hampden-Sydney College and his master's degree and Ph.D. from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Brian Carlton Roseboro, of New Jersey, to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance. He currently serves as Acting Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance, and he previously served as Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Markets. Earlier in his career Mr. Roseboro served as Deputy Director of Market Risk Management for the American International Group and as Director and Risk Management Adviser for the Swiss Bank Corporation in New York. He earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Rochester and his master's degree from Columbia University.
  