
    Mayor Myers, my good friend, Jack Brooks, Congressman Charlie Wilson:
I'm really grateful for these stomping boots. And I want to ask you, how many of you are going to help me stomp the Republicans on November 4? [Cheers]
We've done that a lot of times in Texas. Whenever the Democrats in this State were united, working toward a common goal, recognizing the intense issues that affect the quality of life for the working people of this Nation, for the ones who are the backbone of the greatness of our country, Democrats have never been defeated.
Ten days from now, we have a sharp difference between myself and Governor Reagan, between the Democrats and Republicans, what we've always stood for, and in the quality of life that you will enjoy in the years ahead. I'll do the best I can. I need your help. This is a crucial election. Having Ralph Yarborough here helps me a lot. I'll be meeting Lloyd Bentsen at my next stop. And I believe that Bill Hobby here and other Democrats show you the depth of importance of this election.
All of you remember the longstanding differences between the Democrats and Republicans. In the Great Depression years, I grew up as a boy on a farm. Democrats were for the REA and electricity for farmers; Republicans were against it. Democrats were for a minimum wage. It was only 25 cents an hour then. Republicans were against it. Democrats raised the minimum wage to 40 cents when I got my first job, working for the Government; Republicans were against it. Franklin Roosevelt and the Democrats were for social security; the Republicans were against it. Governor Reagan got his start in politics campaigning around this country, for the American Medical Association, against Medicare to give old-age people better health care. He hasn't changed his spots, neither have the Republicans. They still feel the same way about the working people of this Nation.
Democrats have always been in the forefront of giving us a better life in our State. Agricultural income, oil and gas production, coal production, better security, more commitment to peace now and in the future—all of these issues are very important to you and to me. You'll help me, as partners; we'll have a greater life in our great country in the next 4 years, and we will whip the Republicans on election day on November the 4th.
Thank you very much. God bless you.
I'm very proud of these stomping boots. Thank you for making them for me.
Good luck.
  