
    Des Moines, IA -- Today, former State Representative Bob Osterhaus and Ann Osterhaus of Maquoketa announced their support for Barack Obama's campaign for President citing his commitment to changing politics in Washington D.C. to bring about real change.
"Both parties have failed to pass long needed reforms to our nation's health care system because of lack of leadership to move us past the broken, partisan politics in Washington D.C.," Rep. Osterhaus said. "Senator Obama is the candidate with the combination of the integrity, skill and judgment to lead us in securing health care for every American. His record demonstrates his ability to bring people together in order to find solutions for tough challenges like reforming health care, strengthening our schools and restoring the faith needed by working families in order for them to achieve the 'American Dream.'"
Bob Osterhaus served in the Iowa House of Representatives from 1996 through 2004. He received his BSPh from the University of Iowa College of Pharmacy in 1952 and was named a Distinguished Alumnni of the University of Iowa in 1997. He has served as the President of the American Pharmacists Association. In 2005, he was awarded the profession of pharmacy's highest recognition, the Remington Honor Medal. He was a co-founder of the Maquoketa Area Community Foundation and served as its chairman for seven years.
"Senator Obama is the rare candidate who listens to the concerns of average people when presenting his vision for changing this nation," said Ann Osterhaus. "He doesn't take money from PACs or federal lobbyists, which means he can put interests of the American people ahead of the specials interests in Washington D.C."
"I am proud to have the support of Representative Osterhaus and Ann Osterhaus for my campaign to change the politics of Washington D.C., so we make progress on the tough challenges we face," Senator Obama said. "They will play an instrumental role in building support for our campaign in Jackson County and across Iowa."
To date, Senator Obama has received 15 endorsements from Iowa state legislators including Rep. Ako Abdul-Samad, Sen. Bob Dvorsky, Rep. Elesha Gayman, Sen. Bill Heckroth, Rep. David Jacoby, Rep. Pam Jochum, Rep. Helen Miller, Sen. Rich Olive, Rep. Donovan Olson, Rep. Tyler Olson, Rep. Janet Petersen, Sen. Tom Rielly, Rep. Mark Smith, Sen. Steve Warnstadt and Sen. Frank Wood. Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller and State Treasurer Mike Fitzgerald have also endorsed Senator Obama's campaign for change.
  