
    John R. Adams, of Ohio, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice George Washington White, retired.
J. Cofer Black, of Virginia, to be Coordinator for Counterterrorism, with the rank and status of Ambassador at Large, vice Francis Xavier Taylor.
J. Daniel Breen, of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Tennessee, vice Julia Smith Gibbons, elevated.
Jewel Spears Brooker, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Peggy Whitman Prenshaw, term expired.
Cormac J. Carney, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Carlos R. Moreno, resigned.
Dario Fernandez-Morera, of Illinois, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Susan E. Trees, term expired.
Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Lorraine Weiss Frank, term expired.
David Hertz, of Indiana, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2006, vice Henry Glassie.
Stephen McNight, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2006, vice Isabel Carter Stewart.
Sidney McPhee, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Margaret P. Duckett, term expired.
Lawrence Okamura, of Missouri, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Doris B. Holleb, term expired.
Marguerite Sullivan, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Susan Ford Wiltshire, term expired.
Stephan Thernstrom, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities for a term expiring January 26, 2008, vice Arthur I. Blaustein, term expired.
Thomas A. Varlan, of Tennessee, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Tennessee, vice Robert Leon Jordan, retired.
  