
    
  Politico: "Mitt Romney: Lindsey Graham Should Be On The Main Stage"
  (Nick Gass, "Mitt Romney: Lindsey Graham should be on the main stage," Politico, 10/28/15)


"Analysts And Politicians Alike Praised Graham's Performance" "The South Carolina senator delivered memorable, animated responses that drew both applause and laughter from the audience. Not only that, analysts and politicians alike praised Graham's performance. Former Massachusetts Governor and Republican presidential nominee Mitt Romney tweeted that Graham deserves to be debating with the top-tier candidates." (Marissa Piazzola, "Lindsey Graham Zingers Color Undercard GOP Debate," FOX Business, 10/28/15)
"Graham Was The Standout Of The Debate" (Maya Rhodan, "Candidates Fail to Catch Fire at Third Republican Undercard Debate," TIME, 10/28/15)
"Just Like He Did In The Previous Republican Undercard Debate, Sen. Lindsey Graham Stole The Show Wednesday Evening" (Greg Richter, "Lindsey Graham Steals the Show at CNBC's Undercard Debate," The Daily Beast, 10/28/15)
 
"Lindsey Graham: For The Second Straight Undercard Debate, The Senator From South Carolina Was In A Class Of His Own. He Was Funny And Knowledgeable." (Chris Cillizza, "Winners and losers from the third Republican presidential debate," The Washington Post, 10/28/15)
"South Carolina Senator Lindsey Graham Was Deemed By Many To Be The Winner Of The Early Republican Presidential Debate [Last Night] On CNBC." "Graham blasted President Obama on foreign policy, needled fellow undercard candidates on their conservative bonafides, and most importantly for some New Englanders, declared himself a Tom Brady fan." (Kevin Slane, Lindsey Graham gives Tom Brady a shoutout during debate," BDC Wire, 10/28/15)
"Sen. Lindsey Graham Dominated Google Searches During CNBC's Undercard Debate." (Hadas Gold, "Lindsey Graham dominates Google searches during undercard debate," Politico, 10/28/15)


"Graham Was Aggressive At The Debate...Defending His Strong Opinion On National Defense"
(Sara Jerde, "Mitt Romney: Lindsey Graham Should Debate On The 'Big Stage,'" TPM, 10/28/15)
"Sen. Lindsey Graham Made Headlines With His Continued Bashing Of The Current Administration's Military Policy And Foreign Policy Strategy." "His comments on those topics stood out on a night where debate moderators from the business news channel CNBC eschewed defense and national security questions in the main event in favor of the candidates' tax code details and corporate résumés." (Leo Shane III, "In GOP debate, Lindsey Graham tackles defense while field talks business," Military Times, 10/28/15)
"[Graham] Argued During Wednesday Night's Republican "Undercard" Debate That He Would Bring A Muscular Approach To Foreign Policy Into The White House."
(Brett LoGiurato and Colin Campbell, "LINDSEY GRAHAM: 'Make me commander-in-chief, and this crap stops,'"Business Insider, 10/28/15)
"Graham's Most Memorable Line - 'Make Me Commander-In-Chief And This Crap Stops'" "- came after a tirade against what he described as the foreign policy failures of President Obama and his former secretary of State, the Democrat frontrunner Hillary Clinton. Graham also got laughter and applause when he attacked Clinton for saying she was "dead broke" after eight years in the White House, and when he suggested the self-described Democratic Socialist Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.) never returned from his honeymoon in the Soviet Union."(Jonathan Swan and Ben Kamisar, "Graham stands out in second-tier debate," The Hill, 10/28/15)
"Overall, Graham Advocated For Growing The Economy In Order To Help The Middle Class...He Also Vowed To Honor And Protect Those Who Have Defended The United States."
(Marissa Piazzola, "Lindsey Graham Zingers Color Undercard GOP Debate," FOX Business, 10/28/15)
  