
    [APP Note:  As with all "Campaign Documents" archived by the APP, the content of this document was prepared by the presidential campaign. This is not the analysis or work product of the American Presidency Project.  We do not vouch for the accuracy of ANY campaign document published by any presidential campaign. They are provided as part of the historical record.] The Biden family profited off of 'Biden Inc.' for decades.
President Trump is right: Biden spent decades hanging American workers out to dry while his family was cashing in on Biden's name and connections and profiting off his coziness with China. The revelations from Hunter Biden's laptop are only the tip of the iceberg.
The latest Senate report on Hunter Biden's lucrative foreign business dealings only adds more shocking revelations to the Biden family's web of contacts with Russian oligarchs and Chinese Communist officials.
"We've got people all around the world who want to invest in Joe Biden," his brother reportedly told corporate executives in 2006. The Biden family wasn't shy about using their status to enrich themselves, often at the expense of the forgotten, working-class Americans Biden left behind:


Hunter Biden's firm received a $3.5 million wire transfer in 2014 from Russian billionaire Elena Baturina, the wife of the former mayor of Moscow.


Hunter Biden had zero experience in the energy sector, but he was paid boatloads of cash by a corrupt Ukrainian gas company for a no-show job while his father was directing the Obama Administration's Ukraine policy as vice president. Hunter landed the sweetheart gig within weeks of his father's visit to Ukraine.


Hunter opened a joint bank account with a Chinese national tied to the Communist government. The account financed a $100,000 global spending spree for Hunter as well as Joe Biden's brother James and his wife Sara.


While Joe Biden advocated for legislation favored by big banks that made it harder for struggling Americans to declare bankruptcy, Biden's son Hunter was "earning" hundreds of thousands of dollars in "consultant fees" from one of those banks, MBNA.


While Biden oversaw Iraq policy, a construction firm that employed Biden's brother James magically secured $1.5 billion in contracts in Iraq.


Biden's brother Frank has called his last name "a tremendous asset" for his personal business ventures.


"Biden's brother [James] told executives at a healthcare firm that the former vice president's cancer initiative would promote their business, according to a participant in the conversation, who said the promise came as part of a pitch on behalf of potential investors in the firm," according to Politico.


Biden's brother James bought land on a Caribbean island in 2005, then turned around and sold one-third of it the next year to a lobbyist close to Biden for what had been the cost of the entire property.


While Biden was vice president, his son Hunter joined him on Air Force Two for a trip to China. While in Beijing he arranged for his Chinese business partner to meet his father. Ten days after the trip, Hunter's firm received an approval from the Chinese government-owned Bank of China that paved the way for more than a billion dollars in business for Hunter's firm.


About one-fifth of the $11 million Biden's 2008 presidential campaign raised went to Biden family members through companies that employed them.


As early as the 1970s, Biden's brother James was cashing in on his name to secure "unusually generous" loans while then-Senator Biden sat on the Senate Banking Committee.


While Biden was vice president, the Delaware non-profit where his daughter was executive director received a federal grant totalling $166,000.


Biden's son-in-law Howard Krein founded an investment consultancy that immediately received special access to the Obama White House with Biden's help.


While Biden's family was getting rich, America was getting robbed. Beijing Biden spent decades in Washington advancing China's interests and supporting terrible trade deals like NAFTA and TPP. No wonder China wants to see Biden win in November.


Biden dismissed workers' concerns and voted for NAFTA in 1993, costing 850,000 Americans their jobs and shattering middle-class communities.


Campaigning for president in 2007, Biden promised to renegotiate NAFTA. But when he had the chance as vice president, he failed to even lift a finger.


Biden led the effort to give China "most favored nation" trade status, saying he did not foresee "the collapse of the American manufacturing economy" because of the deal. 1 million American manufacturing jobs were lost between 2000 and 2007 because of Biden's poor judgement.


Biden has repeatedly dismissed the threat that China poses to American workers. He even went out of his way to promote China's interests in outer space.


As vice president, Biden led the fight in support of the job-killing Trans-Pacific Partnership (TPP) trade deal, which would have killed nearly half a million American jobs, shrunk our economy, and been a catastrophe for the people of Scranton and Allentown and Pittsburgh.


Biden is still trying to kill American jobs. He recently pledged to "sacrifice" hundreds of thousands of blue-collar paychecks in pursuit of his radical Green New Deal agenda. He said he will ban fracking and take millions of cars off the road.
Millions of Americans were ignored and left behind by Joe Biden, who put his family and foreign countries like China first and America last. Our country can't afford to let him do that again.
  