
    Pool Reports by Noah Bierman, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




October 25, 202114:56

VP pool #1 
VP Harris walked into a climate meeting for an unannounced visit at about 2:45 today in the Sec of War suite of the Executive Office Building. She got a standing ovation from the 18 people seated around the table.
Among them were Gina McCarthy and Brian Deese, Emily Ruiz and john Podesta.
She is now speaking on the administration's climate agenda."They spoke with exclamation points" she said of the UN climate report.
"A moment of crisis" and opportunity. "We cannot afford to be incremental." But must also seek consensus.
Wanted to thank you and talk about BBB.
She just spoke about her visit to Lake Meade and a prior visit to an electric school bus factory.
She said she and Biden are "unwavering" but you don't want to watch sausage making being done. But the end result is usually good iunless you are a vegan.
Remarks concluded after 9 minutes and pool was ushered out. More TK



October 25, 202115:27

VP pool #2 attendees and quotes
First off, I had a typo in the last report referring to Lake Mead in Nevada. Apologies. Harris, after walking in, sat at the head of the long table. In addition to those seated around her and the pool, there were a few other people in seats along the back wall.
Here are some quotes.
On the UN Climate report and the need for action: 
"They were unambiguous. This was the first time I've seen a UN report where it wasn't 'Oh we kind of think. There's a general consensus.'No! I mean they spoke with exclamation points, with numbers, with dates -- 2030. So this is a moment of crisis. And as I think we all think of crises, also a moment of opportunity. And we cannot afford, at least in our fights, we cannot afford to be incremental. We cannot afford to be patient. Nonetheless, we also have a system where there must be consensus when we're talking about the Build Back Better agenda, and we will work together to accomplish what we all know, we must do.
On ongoing negotiations on reconciliation, prioritizing climate issues, sausage-making and vegans:
"These are the issues that we are focused on. These are the issues that we are prioritizing. And the negotiations continue as you all know. But [I wanted to come by also to tell you that]…we the President and I and our administration are unwavering in our commitment to these issues. Absolutely unwavering.
But you know, there's an old saying, you don't want to watch sausage be made and you don't want to watch a bill being made.
{laughter]
Sometimes it's not a pretty sight. But the end result -- unless you're a vegan of course [laughter from Harris and the others] –- the end result is usually pretty pretty good, but there's work to be done."
"But I'll just close my comments by saying that we strongly believe, as I know you do, that this is a very specific moment in time. And we cannot squander: Yes, the opportunities but also the great responsibility that we have to do something. And we are focused as an administration on doing something and getting things done."
"I believe strongly as a devout public servant that a lot of the progress that we've ever made in government is due in large part to the efforts and the push that comes from outside…"
From VP's office
On Background
The Vice President is meeting with national environmental and climate organization leaders that are members of the Climate Action Campaign, along with National Climate Advisor, Gina McCarthy, National Economic Council Director Brian Deese, Council on Environmental Quality Chair Brenda Mallory, and Director of Political Strategy and Outreach, Emmy Ruiz. The Vice President will thank the group for their work to help pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda which will create good-paying, union jobs and advance environmental justice through historic investments to tackle the climate crisis.

Margie Alt, Campaign Director, Climate Action Campaign
Manish Bapna, CEO, Natural Resources Defense Council
Deb Brown, Chief Mission Officer, American Lung Association
Michael Brune, President, Sierra Club
Joanna Chao Kreilick, President, Union of Concerned Scientists
Abbie Dillen, President, Earthjustice
Gene Karpinski, President, League of Conservation Voters
Fred Krupp, President, Environmental Defense Fund
Collin O'Mara, President & CEO, National Wildlife Federation
John Podesta, Founder, Center for American Progress
Dr. Elena Rios, President & CEO, National Hispanic Medical Association
Peggy Shepard, Co-Founder and Executive Director, WE ACT for Environmental Justice
Tom Steyer, Founder, NextGen America
Kathleen Welch, Principal, Corridor Partners
Wendy Wendlandt, President, Environment America





  