
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 25
In the morning, the President went to the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, MD, for his annual physical.
September 27
In the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Frank H. Cruz and Ernest J. Wilson III to be members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard H. Brown as a member of the Advisory Committee on Trade and Policy Negotiations.
The President announced his intention to appoint Sara Castro-Klaren, Hoyt H. Purvis, and Lee Williams to the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Canada on October 8, to address the Forum of Federations in Mont Tremblant and to meet with Prime Minister Jean Chretien in Ottawa.
The White House announced that the President will attend the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe Summit in Istanbul, Turkey, on November 18-19, visiting Bulgaria before the summit and Italy and Greece after the summit.
September 28
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles Manatt to be Ambassador to the Dominican Republic.
The President announced his intention to nominate Avis Thayer Bohlen to be Assistant Secretary of the Bureau of Arms Control at the Department of State.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alan C. Kessler and LeGree S. Daniels to be members of the U.S. Postal Service Board of Governors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ronnie Fern Liebowitz as a member of the U.S. Naval Academy Board of Visitors.
September 29
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard N. Zare as Chair and Sandra M. Faber and Jay Patel as members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science.
The President announced his intention to appoint Marvin E. Johnson and John G. Wofford as members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel.
September 30
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Palisades, NY, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph R. Crapa to be Assistant Administrator for Legislative and Public Affairs for the U.S. Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to appoint John Gage, Nancy E. Pfund, and Susan R. Collins as members of the Web-Based Education Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Martin E. Marty as a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities.
October 1
In the morning, the President traveled to Las Vegas, NV, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Palo Alto, CA.
  