
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate John B. Brown III to be Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration of the Department of Justice. Brown is currently the Special Agent in Charge of the Drug Enforcement Agency's Dallas Field Division, responsible for overseeing DEA enforcement and intelligence operations in North Texas and throughout the State of Oklahoma. Mr. Brown joined the Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs, the predecessor agency of the DEA, as a Special Agent in 1972 and was assigned to the DEA Resident Offices in Mexico, from 1984 to 1988. Brown has also served as DEA Miami Group Supervisor in the Florida Joint Task Force, Group Supervisor of the Caribbean Enforcement Group and Inspector and Senior Inspector in the DEA Office of Professional Responsibility for the Southeast Office. In 1995, he was assigned to DEA headquarters serving as the agency's Deciding Official for Disciplinary matters, and in 1997 Brown was selected to Direct the El Paso Intelligence Center. Mr. Brown holds a Bachelor's degree from the State University of New York at Brockport.
The President intends to nominate William Leidinger to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Management. Leidinger has served with Price Waterhouse Coopers since 1997, first as a Senior Principal Consultant and currently as MidAtlantic Business Development Manager. From 1992 to 1996, he served as County Executive for Fairfax County, Virginia. He was Executive Vice President of Security Federal Savings in Richmond, Virginia, from 1986 to 1991 and was Executive Director of the McGuire Clinic from 1981 to 1986. He was also a member of the Richmond City Council from 1980 to 1990. Leidinger received an undergraduate degree from Loras College in Dubuque, Iowa, and a Master's degree from the University of Iowa.
The President intends to nominate Cameron R. Hume to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Africa. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he is presently a Senior Advisor at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations in New York. Hume has served as Chief of Mission in Algeria from 1997 to 2000, Political Counselor at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations from 1994 to 1997 and Deputy Chief of Mission at the Vatican from 1991 to 1994. He has completed multiple assignments overseas and in Washington, D.C. including Chief of the Political Section in Beirut and political officer in the Office of Southern African Affairs. Ambassador Hume is a graduate of Princeton University and American University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Frederick W. Schieck to be Deputy Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development. Currently a private consultant, Schieck was with the Inter-American Development Bank from 1990 to 2000 where he served as Senior Deputy Manager of the Bank's Operations Department. From 1965 to 1990, Schiek served with U.S.A.I.D. in a variety of positions in the U.S. including Deputy Assistant Administrator in the Bureau for Latin America and the Caribbean, Deputy Assistant Administrator in the Bureau for Program and Policy Coordination and Deputy Assistant Administrator in the Bureau for Asia. He has also held multiple posts overseas including Mission Director for USAID Philippines, Deputy Director and Acting Director for USAID Guatemala and Chief of the Loan Office for USAID Chile. Schieck received an undergraduate degree from Georgetown University and an M. B. A. from Harvard University.
  