
    Pool Reports by Ebony Bowden, New York Post



Sent:
Reports:




 October 22, 2020 10:57

 In Town Pool Report #1 -- Good Morning 
?Good morning from a foggy Washington. I'm your in-town print pooler for the day.
The only event on the president's schedule today is his final debate with former vice president Joe Biden in Nashville, TN. He departs the White House at 12.40pm.
I will provide any updates throughout the day and, as always, feel free to let me know if you have any questions. 


 October 22, 2020 12:36

 In Town Pool Report #2 -- Kudlow gaggle on COVID-19 stimulus 
?White House economic advisor Larry Kudlow gaggling on the driveway just now:
Q. Are you talking just to talk?
We've been talking since mid July. We've come a long way regarding compromises, a long way, but the other team knows full well what the policy differences are, OK? They know. So if they're not going to give ground- most of these policies by the way have little or nothing to do with COVID. As the president said yesterday, we're not here to bail out poorly-run states -- whether they're red, white or blue; we're not here to bail-out pensions from the state governments, we can do that another time. The other side knows that we're not going to do that so why do they insist on doing it, alright? It looks like showboating to me, it doesn't look serious. On the other hand, things like additional health care for illegal immigrants, they know that's not going anywhere. That's an ideological wishlist from the other side. It's a fair topic to discuss but why now? We can do that later. Immigration policy is very important, we have our views, they have our views, we don't have to solve that now. Thathas nothing to do with COVID... We are still talking. That's important.
Q. Remaining hang ups?
There are still significant policy differences. We've made great progress in this economy. It's a V-shaped recovery in my view, but we know that unemployment is still too high. We want to reopen businesses and get people back to work. Why can't we get some unemployment assistance here? We did it by executive order but that money's gonna run out. Why can't Congress quickly pass a bill?
What you got is the other team is holding out, frankly, for some political wish lists they know that senators and the GOP are not going to buy into it. They know that. So therefore, the clock is ticking.
Q. COS Meadows said a window of 48 hours. Do you think that is possible?
Of course I stand by the chief. I don't want to rank anything. It's a sunny day today.
Q. Have Republicans given you a limit for how high they're willing to go? POTUS has said he is willing to go higher than Pelosi.
On some topics, on some issues, absolutely.
Q. But the president has got to get the Republicans to agree and they've been very reluctant to do that.
Agree to what? I just got through saying there are issues here that do not really relate to COVID or the economy. They are political ideological type issues. The two parties are split. They are unresolved. They are not likely to get resolved. My point is since they don't directly affect COVID safety or economic growth why do we have to do that?
I'm not trying to say the policies don't matter. I understand they matter. We have differences of opinion. I'm just saying why now? If you're worried about economic assistance or the unemployed, the small businesses, the airlines, the schools — let's just get that done. Let's not put ideology ahead of pragmatism. I think the GOP senators are being very practical. I think President Trump, Secretary Mnuchin and Chief Meadows are looking at this in a pragmatic way. Our goal right now is COVID related safety and economic recovery. Let's just focus on that. There are many other issues and I'm not demeaning it. I'm just saying you got a big presidential election to decide and you've got time after that. You don't have to do it now. 


 October 22, 2020 13:09

 In Town Pool Report #3 -- POTUS departure (no questions) 
President Trump and the first lady boarded Marine One at 1.03 p.m., followed by White House social media director Dan Scavino and FLOTUS spox Stephanie Grisham.
POTUS took no questions but the couple stopped to wave to a crowd of supporters holding American flags. 


 October 23, 2020 01:04

 In Town Pool Report #4 — Arrival 
?Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 12.56 a.m.
POTUS entered residence a few minutes later holding hands with First Lady Melania Trump. He did not stop to talk to reporters.
And we have a lid. Goodnight all. 




Pool Reports below by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor



Sent:
Reports:




 October 22, 2020 13:30

 Travel pool #1: Potus lands JBA, nonquesrions, en route Nashville 
?Greetings from Joint Base Andrews, where it's sunny and 79 degrees, en route Nashville for the second/final presidential debate.
Marine One landed at 1:16 pm. First couple emerged from helo at 1:20, holding hands. She is wearing black sleeveless dress, black heels. He in dark blue suit and red tie. He pointed to pool, seemed he might come over and talk to us but did not. First couple walked up steps and into plane together.
Besides FLOTUS, Dan Scavino, and Stephanie Grisham, pool saw COS Mark Meadows, and body man Nick Luna. Stephanie and Nick in masks, others not.
Also on board, we are told: Alyssa Farah and Kayleigh McEnany.
We're in the big plane, rolling for Nashville at 1:27. 


 October 22, 2020 14:51

 Travel pool #2: landed in Nashville 
?Air Force One landed at Nashville International Airport at 1:49 Central time. (All times going forward are CDT, while we are in Nashville.)
Shortly after takeoff, comms director Alyssa Farah came back to the press cabin to say hello. She was not wearing a mask. Pool asked if everyone on the plane had been tested, and she said yes. But when asked specifically if Potus had been tested, she said, "I will ask the doctor."
Shortly before landing, COS Mark Meadows came back for a quick hello to the pool. Short conversation was off the record. He was wearing a mask.
Note: Travel pool was all tested for Covid this morning at the White House. 


 October 22, 2020 15:05

 Travel pool #3: Potus tested negative in the plane 
?Potus and FLOTUS exited plane at 2:03 pm
Potus tested negative on plane ride per COS.
"We tested him on the way here (on the plane) and he tested negative,"'said Mark Meadows to pool.
Seen exiting rear of plane: Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner, Tiffany Trump, Jason Miller, Robert O'Brien. Scavino no mask. Kayleigh McEnany
Will get greeters 


 October 22, 2020 15:16

 Travel pool report 4: Potus greets crowd, rolling 
?Potus and FLOTUS visited w greeters at bottom of steps of AF1 then walked across tarmac to crowd of supporters, mostly in military garb. hard to hear, potus said something about "feeling proud."
Someone shouted "four more years."
Also seen exiting AF1: Dave Bossie, Bill Stepien, Debbie Meadows (wife of COS).
Motorcade rolling at 2:06.
Greeters, per WH:
Major General Tommy BakerDeputy Adjutant General, State of Tennessee
Colonel Todd WilesCommander, 118th Wing, Tennessee Air National Guard
Chief Master Sergeant Kenneth SimmonsSenior Enlisted Leader, State of TennesseeState Representative Cameron SextonSpeaker of the Tennessee State House and State Representative from Tennessee's 25th State DistrictChairman Scott GoldenChairman of the Republican Party of Tennessee
Ambassador Bill HagertyRepublican Nominee for Senate
200 Military Service Members 


 October 22, 2020 15:29

 Travel pool #5: Potus arrives at debate site for walk-thru 
?Motorcade arrived Belmont U for debate walk thru at 2:26 pm after uneventful ride.
Many bystanders en route, signs mostly pro trump. One Biden Harris sign spotted.
We passed a hospital, nurses in scrubs stood outside, one holding a sign that said Heroes.
Pool is waiting in vans during walk thru. 


 October 22, 2020 15:56

 Travel pool #6: motorcade rolling 
Motorcade rolling at 2:55 pm. Per the schedule next stop is JW Marriott Nashville for a round table with supporters, which is closed press. 


 October 22, 2020 16:03

 Travel pool #7: arrival at Marriott 
Motorcade arrived JW Marriott at 3:03 pm.
Signs en route:Open CubaGood Luck JoeTrump - Make America Great Again!
Crowd in front of hotel cheering, waving flags 


 October 22, 2020 18:40

 Travel pool report #8: pool note 
The pool has been told that, at 6:00 pm CDT, campaign adviser Jason Miller is expected to bring one of the president's debate guests to talk to the pool.
This will be recorded on camera, but we don't know if any networks will take it live.
POTUS is not expected to come. 


 October 22, 2020 19:31

 Travel pool report #9: Tony Bobulinski speaks to pool, part one 
?At 6:16 pm CDT, former Hunter Biden business associate Tony Bobulinski came into the pool hold to read a prepared statement. He was here a little over 7 minutes, answered a couple of questions briefly after saying he would take no questions.
TV cameras recorded, but here are highlights:
Mr. Bobulinski's statement reviewed the story of business dealings with members of the Biden family that has already been in the media.
"I've heard Joe Biden say he never discussed business with Hunter. That is false," he said.
"Tomorrow I will be meeting with the Senate committee members concerning this matter. And I will be providing the FBI the devices which contain the evidence corroborating what I have said, so I will not be taking any questions at this time."
But he did answer a couple briefly:
q. can you say more about the evidence you will provide the FBI?
"The evidence sits on these three phones. [which he brought with him, and placed in front of him on a chair]. I don't want to go into anything further. This will be discussed with Senator Johnson and his committee and the American people can decide what's fact."
Who paid for you to be here? "I paid for myself"
more TK 


 October 22, 2020 19:43

 Travel pool report #10: Bobulinski transcript 
Here's the transcript of Tony Bobulinski's statement, via Otter:
Good evening. My name is Tony Bobunlinski. I served as a lieutenant in the United States Navy with high security clearance. My father and grandfather, both served for decades in our country's armed forces. Since leaving the Navy. I've been involved in various successful businesses, both in this country and abroad. I'm making the statement to set the record straight about the involvement of the Biden family, Vice President Biden, his brother Jim Biden, and his son hunter Biden. In dealings with the Chinese.
I've heard Joe Biden say that he's never discussed this with Hunter. That is false.
I have first hand knowledge about this because I directly dealt with the Biden family, including Joe Biden. I have also heard the Vice President Biden said on Tuesday, that Senator Ron Johnson the chair of the Senate Homeland Security Committee, should be ashamed for suggesting the Biden family sought to profit from their name. Well here are the facts, I know. And everything I'm saying is corroborated by emails WhatsApp chats agreements documents and other evidence and American people can judge for themselves.
I brought, I guess, for the record three phones that spanned the years 2015 to 2018 these phones have never been held by anybody else besides myself. I was told this past Sunday by somebody who was also involved in this matter that if I went public this information would be it would vary all of us, man. The binds included.
I have no wish to bury anyone. I've never been political. The few contributions I've made have been the Democrats. But what I am is a patriot, and a veteran, to protect my family name, and my business reputation. I need to ensure that the true facts are out there.
In late 2015. I was approached by James Gilliar, whom I had known for many years, about joining him in a deal which he said would involve the Chinese state owned enterprise CFC China, energy, and what he called one of the most prominent families in the United States. I was informed first by Gilliar, and then by Hunter Biden, and by Rob Walker, who was working with the Biden's that the Biden's wanted to form a new entity with CFC, which was to invest in infrastructure, real estate, and technology in the US and around the world. And the entity would initially be capitalized with $10 million, and then grow to billions of dollars of investment capital.
After months of discussion, I agreed to ... hunter Biden's request to become CEO of the entity to be called sino Hawk, sino representing the Chinese side, hop, representing hunter Biden's brother Beau's favorite animal, and between February and may 2017.
We exchanged numerous emails documents and WhatsApp messages concerning sino Hawk, and its potential business. On May, 2 2017, the night before Joe Biden was to appear at the Milken conference. I was introduced to Joe Biden by Jim Biden and hunter Biden. At approximately, and at my approximate hour long meeting with Joe. That night, we discussed the Biden's history. The Biden's family business plans with the Chinese, with which he was plainly familiar, at least at a high level, after that meeting I had numerous communications with hunter Walker guiltier and Jim Biden. Regarding the allocation of the equity ownership of sign off on May 13 2017.
I received an email concerning allocation of equity, which says 10% held by h for the big guy in that email there's no question that h stands for a hunter, big guy for his father, Joe Biden, and Jim for JIm Biden.
In fact, Hunter often referred to as fathers the big guy were my Chairman on numerous occasions, it was made clear to me that Joe Biden's involvement was not to be mentioned in writing, but only face to face. In fact, I was advised by gillean Walker, then hunter in June by more paranoid about keeping joe biden's involvement secret. I also had a disagreement with hunter about the funds CFC was contributing to sino Hawk. Hunter one in 5 million of those funds to go to himself and his family.
So he wanted the funds wired directly to an entity affiliated with him. I objected because that was contrary to our written agreements, concerning sign OHA. He said referring to the chairman. His father, that CFC was really investing in the Biden family that he held a trump card, and that he was the one putting his family legacy on the line. He also said to me on May 17 2017 that CFC wanted to be my partner to be partnered with the Vikings.
During these negotiations I repeated to hunter and others that sino Hawk could not be hunters personal piggy bank.
And I demanded the proper corporate governance procedures be implemented for capital distributions. hunter became very upset with me CFC through two through July 2017 was assuring me. The funds would be transferred to sino Hawk, but they were never sent to our company. Instead I found out from Senator Johnson's September report that the $5 million was sent in August 2017 to entities affiliated with Hunter.
Tomorrow, I will be meeting with the senate committee members concerning this matter. And I will be providing to the FBI the devices which contain the evidence corroborating what I've said, so I will not be taking any questions at this time.
(Then he took a couple of questions, in previous pool report) 


 October 22, 2020 19:53

 Travel pool report #11: otter link of Bobulinski audio/transcript 
Including audio:
https://otter.ai/u/IGna3TQaQvfSsTtoYu-bcK7rO1U


 October 22, 2020 20:31

 Travel pool report #12: motorcade rolling for debate site 
?Motorcade departed the JW Marriott Nashville at 7:30 pm central, en route debate site, the Curb Event Center at Belmont University. 


 October 22, 2020 20:40

 Travel pool report #13: arrival at debate 
?Motorcade arrived Belmont University's Curb Event Center at 7:39 pm after uneventful ride. onlookers stood in the dark and watched us roll by. Some for Trump, some for Biden- pretty even mix. 


 October 22, 2020 20:47

 Travel pool report #13a: pool is holding... 
?.... in a classroom, away from the action. We will watch the debate on TV. 


 October 22, 2020 22:47

 Travel pool report #14: leaving debate venue 
?Debate over, motorcade departed Belmont University at 9:46 pm. 


 October 22, 2020 23:05

 Travel pool report #15: airport arrival 
Crowds were still gathered outside the university as we drove past. Motorcade arrived Nashville International Airport at 10:04 pm. 


 October 22, 2020 23:17

 Travel pool report #16: airport scene, rolling for JBA 
?After arrival at airport, Potus and FLOTUS walked over to crowd of a few hundred people greeting them with chants of "four more years." The first couple lingered a bit, interacted with crowd but pool couldn't hear.
Potus and FLOTUS then walked past pool, which called out to the president. First couple stopped and potus gestured toward the back of the plane. He and FLOTUS climbed steps of AF1, and they turned around and Potus gave a few fist pumps to the crowd.
AF1 is rolling at 10:15 pm central. Next stop JBA. 


 October 23, 2020 00:34

 Travel pool report #17: JBA arrival, Potus chatted mostly OTR 
?AF1 landed at Joint Base Andrews at 12:31 Friday morning eastern time.
Early in the flight, a chatty, even ebullient Potus came back to the press cabin and talked mostly OTR for almost 28 minutes. One point he put on the record: He will vote in Florida on Saturday morning. Kayleigh McEnany looked on as he spoke. Neither she nor Potus wore a mask.
"I'll be in Florida," President Trump said. "We're doing rallies and then I'm going to vote in person." He then clarified that he would vote Saturday morning.
Thank you to Darlene Superville of AP for the exact quote. 




Pool Reports below by Rebecca Ballhaus, The Wall Street Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 October 22, 2020 20:12

 Supplemental debate pool report #1 
Hello from Nashville, where it's cooled down some from a high of 84 degrees this afternoon. There is a small supplemental pool seated in the audience for tonight's debate between President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden.
Doors opened at 6:30 p.m. CST. The event is being held at Belmont University's Curb Event Center arena, which has 5,500 seats and has been used for a broad array of events, including the 2008 town hall presidential debate and an international tennis competition, according to the university. The hall is surrounded by an oval-shaped ring of bleachers.
Tonight, there are expected to be about 200 people in the hall, according to the Commission on Presidential Debates. The blue-carpeted stage has two dark blue lecterns. There is no plexiglass between them, but I'm told by co-pooler Steve Peoples that there was plexiglass up earlier today. In front of the lecterns is a wide blue desk for moderator Kristen Welker. Behind the stage is a banner of stars and the presidential debate seal, an eagle with a banner in its beak that reads "The Union and the Constitution forever."
The lecterns are 12'8" head-to-head, according to Robin Goldman of the CPD, and they are more than 16 feet from the moderator's desk.
In the audience are about seven full rows of chairs on a red carpet, many of them marked with a sign that reads: "Thank you for not sitting here in observance of social distancing." Attendees, all of whom so far are wearing masks, mingled as they waited for the event to begin, many of them gathering not-terribly-distantly near the stage.
Many of the chairs closest to the stage are reserved for the candidate's guests. On Trump's side, the chairs are marked reserved for the First Lady, Eric Trump, Lara Trump, Ivanka Trump, Tiffany Trump, Ambassador Nikki Haley, Kimberly Guilfoyle, Ronna McDaniel, Stephanie Grisham and Ambassador Ric Grenell, among others. Seats are also marked for Michael Boulos, who according to press reports is Tiffany Trump's boyfriend, and Carl Mueller, the father of Kayla Mueller, a humanitarian aid worker in Syria who was held hostage and killed by Islamic State militants in 2015.
Pool didn't see seats marked on the Biden side. Each seat has an orange program and a pack of anti-bacterial wipes from C-SPAN.
Attendees had to go through security and receive temperature checks to enter the debate hall. Attendees are also wearing blue wristbands to show they have tested negative for Covid. Upon entering the building, guests were greeted by several signs advising them: "For the safety of all attendees, any individual entering the debate hall is required to wear a medical mask." No cloth masks are permitted.
I will tweet some pictures @rebeccaballhaus. 


 October 22, 2020 20:59

 Supplemental debate pool #2 
?At 7:38 p.m., the lights in the hall were dimmed and guests were askedto take their seats. Janet Brown, executive director of the Commissionon Presidential Debates, stood on stage and thanked the organizers ofthe debate.
CPD co-chair Frank Fahrenkopf outlined the ground rules, in which oneof the candidates' mics will be muted while the other one delivers hisopening statement for two minutes. That will happen at the top of eachof the six sections, he says. In the first debate, he said, the ruleswere that each candidate would get a two-minute opening statement, and"those rules were not necessarily followed." He asks the audience notto clap or otherwise make noise during the debate, and says attendeesmust keep their masks on. If you take your mask off and decline to putit back on, he says, you will be escorted out.
Pool's view is partly obstructed, but the candidates' families appearto now taken their seats. First Lady Melania Trump is wearing a longblack dress. Keisha Lance Bottoms, the mayor of Atlanta, is also inthe audience.
Kristen Welker, the moderator, came out at 7:57 p.m., welcomed thecandidates' families—and said she was glad FLOTUS is feelingbetter—and said she was looking forward to the debate. 


 October 22, 2020 21:05

 Supplemental debate pool #3 
?At 8:03, the candidates took the stage. Biden entered wearing a maskand took it off. Potus could not be seen wearing a mask. Thecandidates did not shake hands.
Pool can only see the back of most guests' heads, but Eric Trump canbe spotted wearing a mask in the front row.
Pool will send a couple of reports on audience reaction. The debate isstarting now. 


 October 22, 2020 21:49

 Supplemental debate pool report #4 
?We're about halfway through and not a peep from the audience. Three tvscreens are showing the debate for those with an obstructed view.
Pool is seated toward the back and can't see facial expressions ormost of the candidates' family members. Eric Trump's face is partlylit by the stage and he is still wearing his mask. 


 October 22, 2020 22:44

 Supplemental debate pool report #5 
?The debate ended at 9:36 p.m. with a round of applause from the audience. Flotus and Jill Biden joined the candidates on the stage for a photo before exiting the stage, Biden to the right and Potus to the left.
The audience was nearly completely silent during the debate, save for one giggle when Potus quipped: "I know more about wind than you do. It's extremely expensive. Kills all the birds."
Eagle-eyed co-pooler Jennifer Jacobs spotted Kid Rock in the audience, sitting with golfer John Daly. The two posted a picture with their masks pulled down. https://twitter.com/pga_johndaly/status/1319435783573569543?s=21
That concludes the final debate of the 2020 campaign. Have a good night. 



  