
    Richardson discusses solutions to global warming, extreme poverty, pandemic disease, and other threats
DES MOINES, IA-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today delivered a major policy address entitled "Facing Down the Threats of the 21st Century" at the Temple for Performing Arts in Des Moines, Iowa. In the speech, Richardson detailed a 21st century Marshall Plan to combat the pressing global threats of our day.
"For decades, we believed that the only apocalyptic threat to human civilization was the possibility of nuclear war," Governor Richardson said. "Now we know better. We know that poverty and overpopulation affect us all. Refugee crises. Pandemic diseases. Climate change. Environmental degradation. Resource depletion. Ethnic and political instability. These are not just the problems of individual nations; they are the problems of an interdependent world. We are the most powerful nation in the history of the world. Yet we are not immune to such threats. It will take vigilance and bold action now to preserve our safety for the future."
In the speech, Governor Richardson detailed the threat of catastrophic environmental degradation, especially the challenge posed by global climate change. He soon will publish a new book on energy, entitled Leading by Example, which Publishers Weekly has called "substantial." The review continues:
"Drawing on his fifteen years in the U.S. Congress, as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations and as Energy Secretary in the Clinton administration, as well as his New Mexico governorship, Richardson provides useful insights into the resistance of powerful entities such as the automobile industry, coal industry and, of course, the oil industry to alternative energy sources."
"We need to take immediate, bold steps toward clean energy," Richardson said in the address. "The foundation for international action will be my comprehensive energy program, which the Sierra Club has called the most aggressive of any Presidential candidate. I have learned some lessons on the way to making New Mexico the Clean Energy State. The most important one is that Americans are ready to act. All that they need is a President who is ready to lead. Once you lead, you find allies in corners whom you never knew existed."
Governor Richardson emphasized his experience in dealing with global threats throughout his career in public service.
"In these times, facing these threats, we cannot afford to have untested leadership," Governor Richardson said. "My colleagues in this race have my respect, but it is a simple fact that the next international deal negotiated by any of them will be his or her first."
Richardson spoke of his experiences demonstrating the leadership necessary to combat global threats like refugee crises, pandemic diseases, climate change, environmental degradation, resource depletion, and ethnic and political instability.
"I rescued three hostages from Sudan; there was no time then for polls or consultants," Richardson said. "Now is not the time for political calculation. As we gather our strength for this effort, we must remember that preserving one's popularity is no recipe for inspiring a nation, let alone the world. I owe my success in bringing people together and solving problems to risk taking. Sometimes you have to lay things on the line to get results."
To read the full text of Governor Richardson's speech, click here.
  