
    Hello. Thank you very much, Tom.
Ladies and gentlemen, it's great to be with you, even by telephone. I was here tonight on behalf of Mayor Dinkins, with Congressman Manton and Congressman Ackerman and Congressman Floyd Flake, Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney, and Congresswoman Nydia Velazquez. We think we did some good for Mayor Dinkins here tonight. And I know you will on election day.
I was just reminiscing with Tom about the time when I came to your meeting last year in early 1992 when I took the subway from Manhattan and I came out to Queens to the meeting, and your organization got behind me early and stayed with me through the dark days and the bright ones. And I will never forget it. And I want you to know that I am still as grateful to you today as I was on the day we won the New York primary and the day we won the general election.
I also want you to know that we're making progress on all the things that I talked about in Queens so long ago. We just got the report today that the Government's deficit is over $50 billion less this year than we thought it was going to be; that we've got some real growth back in the economy; and that more jobs have been created in the private sector in the first 9 months of this administration than in the previous 4 years of the last one.
Now, we've still got a long way to go, and we've got a lot of work to do. I need your help to pass a comprehensive health care bill that gives health care security to all the people who live in Queens. And we've got a chance now to pass a crime bill that will put more police officers on the street, and pass the Brady bill and other bills that will keep some of these terrible guns out of the hands of kids and others who are using them in the wrong way. We've got to do that. And I need your help to do that.
But I want you to know we're moving in the right direction, and we're not going to stop until we've got this economy up and going, provided health care for all, and made our streets safer.
To do all that, I need to just remember the kind of people I met at the Queens Democratic meeting the first time I came up there. I want you to know I'll never forget you, and I'm grateful to you. I want you to stay behind your Members of Congress so they can stay behind me, and help elect the Mayor on Tuesday.
Thank you very much.
  