
    I am today approving H.R. 6790, the Foreign Service Act of 1980. This bill provides the first comprehensive revision of personnel legislation for the United States Foreign Service in 34 years. It is an important step in the reform, simplification, and improvement of personnel administration in the Government, a top priority of my administration.
Because of its special conditions of employment, including the requirement of availability for worldwide service, the Foreign Service was exempted from most of the provisions of the Civil Service Reform Act of 1978. I recognized then, however, that the Foreign Service, operating under a 1946 act designed for a far different world. was also in need of reform, and that many of the civil service reforms, appropriately modified, would promote greater productivity and improve personnel management in the Foreign Service as well.
The Congress agreed, and we worked together to frame legislation. The Foreign Service Act of 1980 is the product of our nonpartisan collaboration.
While this bill was being drafted, events were occurring that brought home vividly to all of us the extraordinary demands placed on our Foreign Service personnel. They play an essential role in the formulation and conduct of United States foreign policy, and their service abroad often involves deprivation and danger. They are exposed to acts of terrorism and, in some places, to open hostility toward the United States and its representatives. We owe them our fullest support.
The new Foreign Service Act recognizes the professionalism and dedication required by today's Foreign Service. It sets high performance standards, provides incentive awards for outstanding service, and strengthens career development programs. It permits the President to promulgate a pay schedule that complies fully with the requirements of the Federal Pay Comparability Act. The Executive order I will sign shortly will achieve comparability between the Foreign Service and General Schedule pay systems.
When I signed the Civil Service Reform Act just 2 years ago, on October 13, 1978, I said that it would "bring efficiency and accountability and competence to the Federal Government that exceed what we have known in the past" and that it would put "incentive and reward back into the Federal system." Our experience since that law went into effect indicates that it is bringing real improvement to the civil service—and that the American taxpayers are getting a better return on their tax dollar.
I take great pride in signing this bill today. It is a modern charter, well designed to meet the needs of the dedicated, able men and women of the Foreign Service in the decades ahead. I congratulate all Members of Congress and their staffs who devoted long hours and months to preparing it and who worked closely with my administration in bringing it successfully to enactment.
  