
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Jeffrey Thomas Bergner, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Legislative Affairs. Dr. Bergner is a Senior Transatlantic Fellow with the German Marshall Fund of the United States. He also serves as adjunct professor of national security studies at Georgetown University. Prior to this, Dr. Bergner served as the Founding President and Managing Partner of Bergner, Bockorny, Castagnetti, Hawkins & Brain. Earlier in his career, he served as Staff Director for the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations. He also served as Chief of Staff and Legislative Director to Senator Richard Lugar. Dr. Bergner received his bachelor's degree from Carleton College and his master's degree and PhD from Princeton University.
The President intends to nominate Susan McCaw, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Austria. Mrs. McCaw is President of COM Investments and Managing Partner of Eagle Creek Capital. Previously, she was a Principal at Robertson Stephens & Company, a San Francisco-based investment bank. Prior to that, Mrs. McCaw was the Director of Corporate Development at Resna Industries. Earlier in her career, she served as a Business Analyst for McKinsey & Company in New York and Hong Kong. Mrs. McCaw received her bachelor's degree from Stanford University and her master's degree from Harvard Business School.
The President intends to nominate Nicholas F. Taubman, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Romania. Mr. Taubman is President of Mozart Investments. He previously served as Chairman of Advanced Auto Parts. Mr. Taubman held a number of other positions, including Chief Executive Officer and President, throughout his over 45 years with the company. Mr. Taubman received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
  