
    Dr. Martha Burk featured on Presidential Campaign Policy panel
SANTA FE, NM-- The Richardson for President campaign attended the 14th Annual DNC Women's Leadership Forum Annual National Issues Conference this week in Washington, D.C. Representing the campaign at the two-day conference were Dr. Martha Burk, New Mexico Deputy Secretary of Aging and Long Term Care Patsy Trujillo, Americans for Indian Opportunity President LaDonna Harris, and health care advisor Giovanna Rossi.
Dr. Burk, National Co-Chairperson of Women for Richardson, spoke on behalf of the Richardson campaign at a Thursday afternoon panel entitled "The 'XX' Factor and Presidential Campaign Policy." Dr. Burk explained why Governor Richardson's policies are the best in the Presidential field for women.
"Bill Richardson is the most progressive candidate for women," Dr. Burk said. "He is out in front of the other candidates on pay equity and a caregiver credit in Social Security. He is the only major candidate who supports comprehensive paid family leave that does not depend on the state where one lives. He also is the only candidate who explicitly has stated that he will not appoint judges to the Supreme Court who do not consider Roe v. Wade settled law. In short, the best candidate for women is a man-- Bill Richardson."
The National Issues Conference was created in 1993 to provide its members with access to national leaders and to train them in organizing and fundraising. Another major focus is to foster greater participation in women's outreach activities on behalf of Democratic Presidential and Congressional candidates.
Deputy Secretary Trujillo described the conference and why Governor Richardson was such an attractive candidate to the attendees.
"The Richardson for President campaign was very strong at this summit for Democratic women on the national level," Trujillo said. "People were excited about the kind of caliber we have in our group. Our campaign's surrogates were the only ones who looked like America.
"People were talking about how important the western states will be in the next election. The Governor's experience is a key selling point. He has done so much already and brings a lot to the table. He does not need a Presidency 101; he just can roll up his sleeves and get to work on rebuilding our country."
The conference was the most recent demonstration of the swelling support for the Richardson for President campaign in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area. Earlier this month, Governor Richardson spent two days in the region to campaign, fundraise, and deliver a major policy address on Iraq and Defense Modernization at Georgetown University.
  