
    On Monday, October 28, 2019, the White House will welcome tiny dragons, ghouls, ghosts, witches and other fun creepy-crawly costumes as the Trump Administration celebrates its third Halloween at the White House.
Gates will be open to military families and local schoolchildren with their parents from 4:30 to 7:30 PM (tickets were distributed by the Department of Education and the White House Military Office).
A Halloween display of enchanting forest trees will encompass the South Portico. Branches will wrap around the South Portico columns climbing the top of the Truman Balcony, while pumpkins trail down the East and West staircases, their vines intertwined along the railings.
The President and First Lady will hand out commemorative candy in front of the South Portico, and several departments and agencies will be in attendance along with a variety of fun items and activities for the children to participate in. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) will have out of this world objects for kids to look at as well as a display of an EVA Space Suit. The Department of Agriculture will feature a tractor for the guests to explore while the Department of the Interior will give out Junior Ranger Explorer and Fishing books, badges, and stickers including Buddy Bison stickers. Department of Labor and Department of Education will both offer unique photo opportunities with step and repeat backdrops specific to their entities. The United States Postal Service will have spooky collection boxes and a Postal truck for kiddos to see. Children will also be able to check out the Presidential Limo known as "The Beast," which is being brought in by the United States Secret Service.
The United States Air Force Strolling Strings will play traditional Halloween songs and modern tunes.
Please note the following items are not allowed on the White House grounds:

Aerosols of any kind
Animals (except guide dogs)
Any pointed object
Backpacks (oversized)
Balloons
Beverages of any kind
Duffle bags and/or suitcases
Electric stun guns
Fireworks / firecrackers
Food of any kind
Guns / ammunition
Insulated metal containers
Knives of any kind
Mace
Selfie sticks
Smoking (including e-cigarettes)
Tablets (including iPads)
Toy weapons of any kind
Water bottles

The Secret Service reserves the right to prohibit any other personal items. However, strollers, wheelchairs, umbrellas (no metal tips), and cameras are permitted. All items needed for medical purposes will be permitted on the tour (such as wheelchairs, electric scooters, glucose tablets, and EpiPens). Please identify and explain all items needed for medical purposes to Secret Service agents upon arrival.
Please call the 24-hour information line at (202) 456-7041 to check on the status of the event.
  