
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Susan B. Carbon, Director,Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice
•      James B. Warlick, Jr., Ambassador to the Republic of Bulgaria, Department of State
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these two outstanding individuals will be joining my administration by serving in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Susan B. Carbon, Nominee for Director, Office on Violence Against Women, Department of Justice
Susan Carbon, first appointed to the bench in 1991, has been a Supervisory Judge of the New Hampshire Judicial Branch Family Division since 1996. She is a member of the Governor's Commission on Domestic and Sexual Violence and, until recently, chaired New Hampshire's Domestic Violence Fatality Review Committee. Judge Carbon was also a President of the National Council of Juvenile and Family Court Judges (NCJFCJ) from 2007 to 2008 where she still frequently serves as a faculty member. She also serves as faculty for the National Judicial Institute on Domestic Violence - a partnership of the U.S. Department of Justice's Office on Violence Against Women, the Family Violence Prevention Fund, and the NCJFCJ. In September 2006, she chaired Firearms and Domestic Violence: A National Summit for Community Safety in Los Angeles, an initiative funded by the U.S. Department of Justice. She also chaired the project which produced the multidisciplinary Effective Issuance and Enforcement of Orders of Protection in Domestic Violence Cases (The Burgundy Book), a document used throughout the country and U.S. territories to guide professionals in their work around civil protection orders. Judge Carbon has trained judges and other professionals across the country and internationally on topics related to family violence, firearms, child custody, and child protection. She has published extensively on these and other topics, including on judicial selection and retention and judicial administration. She is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin-Madison and the DePaul University College of Law.
James B. Warlick, Jr., Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Bulgaria, Department of State
James B. Warlick, a senior member of the foreign service, is the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of International Organization Affairs (IO) since April 2006, with responsibility for U.S. foreign policy at the United Nations and a number of other multilateral organizations. Prior to that Mr. Warlick was Director of the Office of European Security and Political Affairs, responsible for political-military and security issues for Europe and the former Soviet Union, including NATO, OSCE, and related arms control and nonproliferation policy issues (2005-2006). While Director of the United Nations Political Affairs in IO during 2003-2005, Mr. Warlick also served as Principal Advisor to Ambassador L. Paul Bremer from January 2004 to July 2004 in Baghdad, Iraq. Other assignments have included: Consul General, U.S. Embassy, Moscow; Director, for Germany, Austria and Switzerland in the European Affairs Bureau; Acting Minister-Counselor/ Deputy Counselor for Political Affairs, U.S. Embassy, Germany; Special Assistant to the Secretary of State; Operations Center Watch Officer; Consular Officer, Philippines; and Political Officer, Bangladesh. Prior to his State Department service, Mr. Warlick served as Deputy Representative of the Asia Foundation in Washington, DC and the Philippines; and he was a Foreign Affairs analyst in the Congressional Research Service at the Library of Congress. Mr. Warlick is a graduate of Stanford University, holds a Master of Letters in Politics from Wadham College, Oxford University, and a Master of Arts in Law and Diplomacy from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
  