
    Thursday, October 6—Sunday, October 9, 2016
Dr. Jill Biden is traveling to Havana and Camaguey, Cuba, from Thursday, October 6 through Sunday, October 9, 2016. Dr. Biden is joined by Catherine M. Russell, United States Ambassador-at-Large for Global Women's Issues, and Evan Ryan, United States Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Together, they will meet with government officials and engage with a diverse range of Cubans on topics related to culture, education, and health.
On Thursday evening, upon arrival in Havana, Cuba, Dr. Biden will attend a welcome reception at the U.S. Chief of Mission's residence in Havana, hosted by Ambassador Jeff DeLaurentis, Chargé d'Affaires at the U.S. Embassy. This event is closed press.
On Friday morning, Dr. Biden will visit the Universidad de Ciencias Pedagógicas "Enrique José Varona" and participate in a discussion with students, school administrators, and professors focused on teaching. This event is pooled press.
Dr. Biden will then visit Old Havana to view cultural performances and engage with students at a local trade school. In addition, Dr. Biden will attend a performance by the female chamber orchestra Camerata Romeu at the Basílica Menor de San Francisco de Asis. The visit will be pooled press.
In the afternoon, Dr. Biden will have lunch with Cuban women leaders. This event will be closed press.
After lunch, Dr. Biden will attend the first friendly soccer match between the U.S. Men's National Team and the Cuban Men's National Team since 1947 at the Estadio Pedro Marrero. This event will be open press.
On Saturday morning, Dr. Biden will participate in a discussion with Cuban entrepreneurs. This event is closed press. She will then attend a cultural performance by Habana Compás Dance company. This event will be pooled press.
Afterwards, Dr. Biden will depart Havana, Cuba en route to Camaguey, Cuba. Upon arrival, Dr. Biden will visit the Camaguey Ballet and view a rehearsal of the dancers from the company. This event is open press.
In the evening, Dr. Biden will visit the art gallery and workshop of Camaguey artist Martha Jiménez Pérez. This event is official photographers only.
On Sunday, Dr. Biden will visit historic central Camaguey, recognized as a World Heritage Site by UNESCO, during which she will visit Camaguey's Casa de la Diversidad Cultural and view a cultural performance. This event is pooled press.
In the afternoon, Dr. Biden will visit the Casa de Cultura Amalia Simoni, a museum and women's center, allowing her to meet with women from Camaguey. This event is pooled press.
Afterwards, Dr. Biden will depart Cuba en route to Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic.
  