
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




October 29, 202119:20 CEDT

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 1 - Brigitte Macron meeting 
Good afternoon from Rome, where I'll be your print pooler for Dr. Jill Biden's solo event with Brigitte Macron.
The two women are meeting at a restaurant called Il Marchese. They are arriving separately.
Biden's motorcade pulled up at 4:58 p.m. Several poolers asked about the meeting with the pope. "It was wonderful, he was wonderful," she replied.
Biden is wearing the same outfit as earlier, but has a lighter blue shawl wrapped around the navy suit.
She was seen greeting restaurant staff as she arrived.
Macron's motorcade pulled up at 5:10 p.m. She's also wearing a navy ensemble. Asked if she was excited to meet with Dr. Biden, the French First Lady nodded in affirmation.
While your pool is staged outside, from the window Il Marchese has white and black tiled floors, dark wooden tables, vaulted ceilings with vintage chandeliers and a wall filled with wine. The building is ornate and salmon-colored with black shutters. It's located on a narrow street, close to the Tiber river.
We're holding. More TK.



October 29, 202119:26 CEDT

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 2 - quotes/meeting end 
First Lady Jill Biden and French First Lady Brigitte Macron exited Il Marchese at 6:19 p.m.
"It was wonderful," Biden said of the meeting.
"It's nice, two friends together, just like sisters."
Asked about what they are and drank at the restaurant, Biden replied, "Well, practically nothing."
Asked about the significance of Italy:"We've come here so many times. I love Italy, Brigitte loves Italy. Who would not love Italy? There's nothing that we couldn't love about it right?"
Macron also said something at the end, but it was inaudible.
They ignored a question about whether trips to D.C. or Paris were discussed.
They got into their cars a minute later.
Spokesman Michael LaRosa told pool the conversation looked warm and both women were laughing. He said it looked like they were drinking white wine and were nibbling on something.
Both women have interpreters alongside them.
I resurrected the Dropbox from Tokyo, so new photos will be here: https://www.dropbox.com/sh/xi6eryhktq28sy7/AABHmjJExdCsYaW60Q1hJDiIa?dl=0



October 30, 202100:19 CEDT

FLOTUS Pool Report No. 3 - one more detail 
Your pooler confirmed with the restaurant that the first ladies had Chardonnay.
That's it from me for tonight!




  