
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Don R. Willett, of Texas, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Emilio M. Garza, retired.
Spencer Bachus, III, of Alabama, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2019, vice Patricia M. Loui, term expired.
Spencer Bachus, III, of Alabama, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2023. (Reappointment)
Ernest W. Dubester, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of five years expiring July 1, 2019, vice Carol Waller Pope, term expired.
Neil Jacobs, of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Manson K. Brown, resigned.
Timothy Kelly, of Michigan, to be Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education, vice Brenda Dann-Messier.
Judith Delzoppo Pryor, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2021, vice Larry W. Walther, term expired.
Kimberly A. Reed, of West Virginia, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2021, vice Wanda Felton, resigned.
Claudia Slacik, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2019, vice Sean Robert Mulvaney, term expired.
Claudia Slacik, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2023. (Reappointment)
David Christian Tryon, of Ohio, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Darryl L. DePriest, resigned.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Spencer Bachus, III, of Alabama, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2021, vice Larry W. Walther, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on June 19, 2017.
  