
    Andrew visits the North Philadelphia school by invitation to address the student body, including those taking part in a unique entrepreneurship and financial literacy program
Philadelphia; October 5, 2018: 2020 Presidential Candidate Andrew Yang (D) arrives in Philadelphia on Thursday, October 10th, to visit Olney Charter High School, located in one of the most underfunded school districts in the nation. Here, educator Dan LaSalle has created a unique program that empowers his students to learn personal finance and entrepreneurship. As part of the program, students receive a "salary" for creating and leading student groups that are run much like businesses. You can read more about it here.
As a serial entrepreneur, Andrew Yang recognizes the value in teaching young Americans the skills needed to start their own companies. He's also a proponent of providing financial literacy education for all, starting in high school and continuing throughout life. The program at Olney Charter High School shows the power of investing money in our citizens so they can start businesses that are uniquely valuable to their communities. This program is similar to Venture for America, the service organization started by Andrew Yang in 2011, where recent graduates were brought in to consult with businesses in struggling communities.
Andrew will talk with students about the power of having a mindset of abundance over one of scarcity and discuss two of the central policy platforms of his campaign: The Freedom Dividend, in which every American adult between the ages of 18 and 64 would be given $1,000 per month, and Human-Centered Capitalism, which would change the focus of our economic measurements from GDP and the stock market to numbers that better reflect the well-being of average Americans. He'll also discuss his education platform, and answer questions from the student body.
Andrew will be at the school on October 10, 2018 and available for interviews starting at 1:30pm. Please reach out if you would like to arrange an interview or cover this event.
Complete media kit is available here.
  