
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Amos J. Hochstein – Assistant Secretary for Energy Resources, Department of State
•      David McKean – Ambassador to Luxembourg, Department of State
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
•      Raymond Dolan – Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
President Obama said, "I am grateful these accomplished individuals have made the decision to serve our country. I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Amos J. Hochstein, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Energy Resources, Department of State
Amos J. Hochstein is Special Envoy and Coordinator for International Energy Affairs in the Bureau of Energy Resources at the Department of State, a position he has held since August 2014. Prior to this, Mr. Hochstein was Deputy Assistant Secretary for Energy Diplomacy from 2011 to 2014. Prior to joining the Department of State, he was Executive Vice President of International Operations at Cassidy and Associates. Previously, Mr. Hochstein was Deputy Campaign Manager for Chris Dodd and a Senior Policy Advisor for Senator (then Governor) Mark Warner. He was Senior Vice President at Cassidy and Associates, and served as Senior Policy Advisor for the U.S. House Committee on International Relations. Mr. Hochstein was a Staff Member with the U.S. House Subcommittee on International Economic Policy and Trade.
David McKean, Nominee for Ambassador to Luxembourg, Department of State
David McKean serves as Director of the Office of Policy Planning at the Department of State, a position he has held since 2013. Previously, he served as Senior Advisor for the implementation of the Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review at the Department of State from 2012 to 2013 and was a Public Policy Fellow at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars from 2011 to 2012. Prior to that, he worked as CEO of the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation in Boston from 2010 to 2011, Staff Director for the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee from 2009 to 2010, and Chief of Staff to Senator John F. Kerry from 1999 to 2008. Mr. McKean also served as Minority Staff Director for the U.S. Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations from 1997 to 1998 and Special Counsel for the Commodities Futures Trading Commission from 1995 to 1997. He served as Chief of Staff to Congressman Joseph P. Kennedy from 1994 to 1995 and Legislative Assistant to U.S. Senator John F. Kerry from 1987 to 1992. Mr. McKean received an A.B. from Harvard College, a J.D. from Duke University, and an M.A. from Tufts University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Raymond Dolan, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Raymond Dolan is President and CEO of Sonus Networks, a position he has held since 2010. Prior to joining Sonus, he was CEO of QUALCOMM/Flarion Technologies and Senior Vice President of QUALCOMM from 2006 to 2010. Mr. Dolan was President and CEO of Flarion Technologies from 2000 to 2006. From 1996 to 2000, he was Chief Operating Officer of NextWave Telecom. He held several executive roles at BellAtlantic/NYNEX Mobile from 1988 to 1996. Earlier in his career, Mr. Dolan served as an officer in the U.S. Marine Corps and spent seven years as a tactical jet pilot. He received a B.S. from the U.S. Naval Academy and an M.B.A. from Columbia University.
  