
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

I am honored indeed to bring to the Nation's attention the remarkable contributions of women veterans. During World War I, the service of women on active duty as nurses, shipyard personnel, and battlefield telephone operators was indispensable. In World War II, women served in support and operational capacities around the world. Since World War II, women have been fully integrated into the military services. Today there are more than 1.2 million women veterans.
As active participants in America's defense, women serving in the Armed Forces have safeguarded our heritage. Their courage, selflessness, and dedication to duty deserve our deepest gratitude. Let us revere always the memory of those who gave their lives in military service; let us honor anew those who served valiantly on landing beaches, in field hospitals, and in prisoner-of-war camps.
Our laws grant equal rights, privileges, and benefits to women veterans; and my Administration will continue to ensure that women veterans are afforded the benefits and services to which they are entitled. I know that all Americans join me in saluting these patriotic and dedicated women and in expressing the Nation's appreciation for their service.
In order to show our appreciation for the contributions of women veterans, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 227, has designated the week beginning November 11, 1984, as "National Women Veterans Recognition Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning November 11, 1984, as National Women Veterans Recognition Week.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  