
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Oregon Congressman Greg Walden.
"I am proud to have Congressman Greg Walden supporting my campaign," said Mitt Romney. "With his help, I look forward to defeating President Obama. It is time to get Americans back to work."
Announcing his support, Congressman Walden said, "Today, I am announcing my endorsement and full support for Governor Mitt Romney in his campaign for president. As the senior elected Republican in Oregon, I would not normally wade into a primary, but these are not normal times. I personally know several of the other candidates and have great respect for their willingness to run and for the integrity and honesty they bring to the debate. But the country under President Obama has become more divided and the people are worse off. Governor Romney is best qualified to run, win and govern effectively."
"As an Oregonian, I want a president I can partner with to help restore jobs in our timbered communities, enhance our farm economy and stop the over-the-top proposed federal rules that will ship our jobs overseas," said Walden. "I want a president who is serious about fixing the tax code in a way that will grow our economy. And I want a president who will work with Congress to get America's fiscal house in order, not one that's just looking for a political fight. I look forward to working closely with Governor Romney and his team on natural resource policy and telecommunications policy, both of which I'm deeply involved with in Congress. We have the opportunity to make this America's greatest century. And I look forward to doing my part to elect a president who can lead our country's renewal and growth."
Background On Congressman Walden:
Congressman Greg Walden Has Represented Oregon's 2nd Congressional District In The U.S. House Of Representatives Since 1999. He serves as chairman of the Energy and Commerce Subcommittee on Communications and Technology and is also Chairman of the House Republican Leadership. Prior to entering Congress, Walden owned a small business with his wife.
  