
    
  ENDORSEMENT: KASICH FOR AMERICA ANNOUNCES COLORADO TEAM

Former Colorado State Rep. and Republican Majority Leader Amy Stephens, Former State Rep. and Republican Majority Whip B.J. Nikkel named Kasich for America's Colorado State Co-Chairs
Republican Stalwarts Mary Dambman, Richard Hosley, William Trachman, Jeannie Reeser, and Philip Kelly named to Colorado State Leadership Team
Today, former Colorado State Representative and Majority Leader Amy Stephens and State Representative and Former Majority Whip B.J. Nikkel endorsed Ohio governor John Kasich for President and were named Colorado State Co-Chairs. Also endorsing Gov. Kasich today and joining the State Leadership Team were former State Representative Jeannie Reeser, former Republican National Committee Member Mary Dambman, former Assistant U.S. Attorney Richard and Iraq War Veteran Hosley, Co-Chair of the Colorado Federalist Society Lawyers Chapter William Trachman, and longtime Republican strategist Phillip Kelly.
Amy Stephens served in the Colorado House of Representatives from 2006—2014, and in 2010, she was elected by her colleagues House Majority Leader after helping Republicans secure a House majority in the 2010 elections. Stephens remains very active in state government in the government affairs section for Dentons US, LLP, a leading global law firm. Said Stephens, "John Kasich has a proven record of success both in Washington and in Ohio that is unmatched by any other candidate. From helping to balance the federal budget for the first time in a generation to turning an $8 billion budget deficit into a $2 billion surplus in Ohio, John Kasich has a record of experience and accomplishment that is second to none."
B.J. Nikkel served in the Colorado House of Representatives from 2009 – 2012, during which time she rose in ranks of Republican Leadership to the position of Majority Whip when Republicans held a majority in the House. During her time in the House, Nikkel was widely recognized for her support for the Colorado National Guard and for Colorado veterans. Said Nikkel, "With eighteen years of service on the House Armed Services Committee, Gov. Kasich understands what it takes to make and keep our nation secure. I am proud to endorse him for President, and I look forward to working with our outstanding Colorado Team to help elect him President."
Kasich for America Colorado Team
State Co-Chairs:
Amy Stephens, former Colorado State Representative and Majority Leader
B.J. Nikkel, former Colorado State Representative and Majority Whip
State Leadership Team:
Jeannie Reeser, former State Representative
Mary Dambman, former Republican National Committee Member
Richard Hosley, partner at Hogan Lovells Law Firm, former Assistant U.S. Attorney, and Iraq War Veteran
William Trachman, Co-Chair of the Colorado Federalist Society Lawyers Chapter
Philip Kelly, longtime Republican strategist.
"I am thrilled with the team we have put together in Colorado," said Kasich. "As we head to Boulder on the eve on the Republican primary debate, I couldn't be happier than I am with the respected, experienced Coloradoans I have supporting my campaign. I'm humbled to have earned their support, and I look forward to working with them in the months ahead."
  