
    Pool Reports by John T. Bennett, CQ Roll Call 



Sent:
Reports:




October 20, 202210:55

In-town pool report #1 — Gathered
Good morning from the White House on a picture-perfect autumn morning. The in-town pool has gathered on the South Lawn for President Biden's departure to Pittsburgh then onto Philadelphia. More TK.



October 20, 202211:06

In-town pool report #2 - Biden speaks & departs
President Biden emerged from the residence at 10:58 a.m., wearing a blue suit and black Aviator sun glasses. He first worked a rope line opposite the press location. Biden jogged to take a few questions, with others hearing him thank outgoing British Prime Minister Liz Truss for her partnership. Your pooler will provide a full transcript soon. Marine One lifted off at 11:05 a.m., into a bright blue sky. More TK.



October 20, 202211:10

In-town pool report #3 — from WH
The White House passes along this:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator



October 20, 202211:29

in-town pool report #4 — Biden transcript (Truss & abortion)
President Biden took questions from reporters for just over a minute on the South Lawn. Of note are his comments on abortion. Here is a transcript, with some inaudible moments due to the helicopter's idling engines:
Q: Did Liz Truss do the right thing?
Biden: "Well, that's for her to decide. But, look, she was a great partner on Russia and Ukraine. And the British are going to solve their problem. … She was a good partner.
Q: (Inaudible question on U.S. economy.)
Biden: No, I don't think that is that consequential.
Q: (Inaudible)
Biden: I delivered that privately.
Q: John Fetterman is going to appear with you today in Pennsylvania. There haven't been that many candidates campaigning with you. Why are more cand…
Biden: There have been 15. Count. (Inaudible.) Count.
Q: Okay, are there going to be even more?
Biden: Yeah.
Q: Should there be any restrictions on abortion at all?
Biden: Yes. … There should be.
Q: What should they be?
Biden: It's Roe v. Wade. Read it, man. You'll get educated.
//
With that, POTUS gave the press a wave and headed to Marine One. Handing off to out-of-town travel pool for Biden's stops in Pittsburgh and Philadelphia.



October 20, 202211:44

in-town pool report #4b — AF1 gaggle time
The White House has set a time for the AF1 gaggle: 11:55 a.m. ET. It will stream live on WH.gov (link below):
"Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator Mitch Landrieu will gaggle aboard Air Force One at 11:55am."
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



October 20, 202220:42

In-town pool report #5 — WH arrival/no questions
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 8:36 p.m. President Biden walked off two minutes later and strolled into the residence at 8:39 p.m. He waved but ignored shouted questions about the Federal Reserve, interest rates, Crimea and other topics. POTUS appeared to be carrying a small notebook.
The White House passes along travelers list:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator



October 20, 202220:49

In-town pool report #6 — Lid
The White House called a travel/photo lid at 8:47 p.m. Have a good evening, folks.




 
Pool Reports below by Sebastian Smith, Agence France Presse 



Sent:
Reports:


October 20, 202210:47

Travel pool report 1 - checking in
Good morning from a sparklingly sunny JBA, where pool is awaiting the president for a busy day trip in Pennsylvania.
Here’s the travel schedule. More later.
11:20 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
12:15 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaPittsburgh International Airport, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaOpen Press
2:15 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on rebuilding our nation’s infrastructurePittsburgh, PennsylvaniaOpen Press
4:35 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania en route Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaPittsburgh International Airport, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaOut-of-Town Pool
5:40 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania Philadelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaOpen Press
7:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a reception for Lieutenant Governor John FettermanPhiladelphia, PennsylvaniaRestricted Out-of-Town Pool 
8:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Philadelphia, Pennsylvania en route Joint Base AndrewsPhiladelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaOpen Press
9:05 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route the White HouseJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
9:15 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 9:05 PM – Palm Room Doors)





October 20, 202211:25

Travel pool report 2
POTUS disembarked from Marine One at 11:18 am. He’s wearing a blue suit and aviators.
He did not take questions before climbing - with a little half jog at moments - the stairs into AF1.
At 11:24 am we are rolling, wheels up shortly. Listen out for the Press Secretary’s briefing during the flight, which is not expected to be much more than about 45 minutes long. The White House informs that she will be joined by Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator Mitch Landrieu.



October 20, 202212:01

Travel pool report 3 - travelers
The White House provides this list of travelers:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAlana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation CoordinatorElizabeth Jurinka, Special Assistant to the President & Senate Legislative Affairs Liaison
And for those keeping count:
Greeting the President on arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing



October 20, 202212:11

Travel pool report 4 - wheels down
AF1 was wheels down in Pittsburgh at 12:07 pm. The short flight was unremarkable except for the gaggle, which you hopefully heard, and the enormous sandwich distributed to each pooler. If any problems with the gaggle audio (press sec was still going as AF1 landed and taxied), please reach out and I can provide an otter link.



October 20, 202212:28

Travel pool report 5 - potus disembarks, rolling
POTUS disembarked at 12:20 , using the lower staircase, possibly due to the gusty (and slightly nippy) breeze.
The receiving line included John Fetterman, who is in a suit and tie.
At 12:25 the motorcade is rolling.
From the WH:
Greeting the President on arrival at Pittsburgh International Airport:
Governor Tom Wolf (PA)Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)Senator Bob Casey Jr. (PA)Rep. Mike Doyle (PA-18)Rich Fitzgerald, Allegheny County Executive



October 20, 202213:04

Travel pool report 6 - Fern Hollow bridge
At 12:56 pm the motorcade reached the site of Fern Hollow Bridge, where the president is set to make remarks on infrastructure. That address is scheduled for 2:15 pm and will be broadcast on the White House website.
Pool is as unable to see where the president went on arrival. We are holding at a makeshift, outdoor filing space about 100 feet from the bridge.
The motorcade ride was smooth and fast until slowing down through a neighborhood of leafy streets, handsome houses, speed bumps and knots of friendly onlookers who waved and filmed on phones. The bridge is located in a wooded area (ablaze with the usual fall blaze). In addition to the dozens of black vehicles from the motorcade the approach road is clogged with heavy construction equipment.
Fern Hollow is the bridge that famously collapsed eight months ago on the same day President Biden happened to be visiting Pittsburgh. Its repair is now being held up as an example of the infrastructure spending bill at work.
Per backgrounder sent out last night from the WH:
" The Fern Hollow bridge is one of the nearly 45,000 bridges in poor condition across the United States that need to be repaired or replaced."
" Thanks to strong federal, state, and local government partnership, the Fern Hollow bridge is on an accelerated track to be rebuilt in a single year, compared to a 2- to 5- year timeline common for a similar bridge project."
Opening day is expected this December.



October 20, 202213:29

Travel pool report 7 - three minute warning
The White House says Biden speech event will start in approx three mins. He will be introduced and speak about two mins later. The speech is on the White House website so I will not pool quotes.



October 20, 202213:35

Travel pool report 8 - photo line list
Per White House, participating in a photoline with the President at Fern Hollow Bridge:
Governor Tom Wolf (PA)Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)Jay Costa, Pennsylvania State Senate Democratic Leader (District 43)Rich Fitzgerald, Allegheny County ExecutiveLindsay Bihler, Fire Lieutenant, Bureau of Fire for the City of PittsburghSenator Bob Casey (PA)Rep. Mike Doyle (PA-18)Rep. Conor Lamb (PA-17)



October 20, 202213:44

Travel pool report 9 - speech starts/ speakers
The president took to the podium at 1:40 pm after brief introductory remarks by Gregory Allen Stahl, a carpenter with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters.
"Hello Pittsburgh!" Biden said. "This is going to be painfully short," he said, referring to the cold for the crowd of 100.
At that moment the sound system gave up and for about a minute the president spoke but pool was unable to hear anything. It then came back on just as the president was touting "the resurgence of American manufacturing."
The White House shared this list of people at the event.
In AttendanceGovernor Tom Wolf (PA)Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)Jay Costa, Pennsylvania State Senate Democratic Leader (District 43)Rich Fitzgerald, Allegheny County ExecutiveSenator Bob Casey (PA)Rep. Mike Doyle (PA-18)Rep. Conor Lamb (PA-17)Cheryl Moon-Sirianni, Pennsylvania Department of Transportation



October 20, 202213:55

Travel pool report 10 - speech wraps. moving
The president wrapped up his infrastructure speech at 1:58 pm. He spoke for about 16 minutes.
We are hustling to the motorcade.



October 20, 202214:10

Travel pool report 11 - rolling
Motorcade rolling at 2:10 pm



October 20, 202214:50

Travel pool report 12 - Sandwich shop
The motorcade pulled up at Primanti Bros, the famous sandwich shop, in Pittsburgh at 2:43 pm. The president entered three minutes later and paid for takeout, which was delivered in several white bags, one each for the president’s guests who included John Fetterman.
This was not on the schedule but we are running very early. Schedule has the president leaving Pittsburgh at 4:35 pm.
More color and detail to come.
Also the White House shared this from the bridge visit:
The President received a briefing on the Fern Hollow Bridge reconstruction progress.
In Attendance:Governor Tom Wolf (PA)Senator Bob Casey Jr. (PA)Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)Representative Mike Doyle (PA-18)Representative Conor Lamb (PA-17)Allegheny County Executive Rich FitzgeraldCheryl Moon-Sirianni, District Executive, PennDOT



October 20, 202215:03

Travel pool report 13 - quotes
Gaggle with the president in the sandwich shop. Rapid quotes:
Are you worried about Ukraine aid being approved if Republicans win:"I am worried."
How do you feel about the election?"Good"
Will democrats hold the Senate?"I think so. It ain't over till it's over."
Is your economic plan resonating with voters?"Well, we'll find out. You'll have to ask these folks right here," he said putting a hand on the shoulder of one of the diners. At which another diner joked "don't ask us!"
Are you going to be able to work with Republicans if they win?"I've always been able to do that. I got a lot of bipartisan stuff passed you guys thought I never could have passed."
Are you going to Nevada or Georgia?He said "I've got about 16 to 18 requests " around the country and they're figuring out plans.
After the president walked away, another of those diners (whose table was engulfed by the media and the president's entourage) said to the press: "why didn't you ask him about the border?"
This is rushed. Please check vs transcript.
We are arriving at the airport.



October 20, 202215:12

Travel pool report 14 - AF1 (and note on Primanti location)
Motorcade arrived at AF1 at 3:04 pm.
POTUS boarded a minute later (up the lower steps) without pool being able to get questions in).
We are taxiing for take off to Philadelphia.
A note: the Primanti that we visited was located in Moon Township, close to Pittsburgh’s airport.



October 20, 202216:16

Travel pool report 15 - Philadelphia wheels down + sandwich response + travelers list
At 4:10 pm, AF1 was wheels down in Philadelphia. No visitors to the press cabin or anything else to report beyond another stunningly calorific meal.
We are still well ahead of schedule. Original arrival time was going to be 5:40 pm. The fund raiser for John Fetterman is not scheduled until 7 pm.
From the WH in answer to question on what the president bought and what did he pay for it:
"The President ordered the Pitts-Burger sandwich and left a tip of $40."
Also from the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Philadelphia, Pennsylvania:
Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)Senator Bob Casey (PA)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAlana Mounce, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachElizabeth Jurinka, Special Assistant to the President & Senate Legislative Affairs LiaisonMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator



October 20, 202216:43

Travel pool report 16 - Disembark and motorcade
At 4:39 POTUS accompanied by John and Gisele Fetterman, and Sen. Bob Casey, came down the lower stairs and entered the motorcade. We are rolling.



October 20, 202217:04

Travel pool report 17 - arrival at fundraiser location
At 4:59 pm the motorcade arrived at Union Trust, an event space used for weddings and such and is now the location for the upcoming Fetterman fundraiser. Pool did not see the president. We are holding.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route a reception for Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman:
Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)Senator Bob Casey (PA)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorElizabeth Jurinka, Special Assistant to the President & Senate Legislative Affairs LiaisonMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator



October 20, 202218:03

Travel pool report 18 - fundraiser pool entry
Pool is entering the Union Trust for the fundraiser. Will send quotes as and when. The rules are that we can take notes but no Otter link or video or pix.
From the WH:
Participating in a photoline with the President at a reception for Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman:
Rep. Dwight Evans (PA-03)Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)Former Governor Ed Rendell (PA)



October 20, 202219:13

Travel pool report 19 - fundraiser quotes[APP Note: See the last report in this table for an addendum to this report.]
The fundraiser is being held in a grand hall with an arched ceiling and atmospheric soft lighting. The guests are in gold-painted chairs in front of a stage with four US flags as a backdrop.
Biden spoke after five warm-up speakers, including John Fetterman. A smattering of their quotes is below. The president is quoted here first but in reality he was at the end. The others are listed chronologically. Please check against transcript which the WH will issue later.
Biden began speaking at 6:46 pm and ended at 7:11 pm.
He started by mentioning that Jill Biden is a "rabid, rabid" Phillies fan and although she says she "hates violence," she loves hockey.
"If we do not maintain the Senate and the House in this next election, a lots' going to change. A lot's going to change. We're at a point where there's not a lot of real Republicans left…. The folks running this party are the MAGA Republicans…. They have a very different view about the government role."
"They have a different view of the world and it's really consequential.."
Says Oz went to high school in Delaware but "Delaware was smart enough to send him to New Jersey."
Fetterman has "integrity. You never have to wonder that he means what he says."
This election is not a referendum, "it's a choice: what direction do you want to see this country going?"
Oz "is for undoing everything we have done."
"They want to get rid of or fundamentally change social security of Medicare."
Biden recalled his frequent lines about Republicans opposing his attempts to lower prescription drug prices. "Not a single Republican vote, not one!" he said.
In the Inflation Reduction Act which he says made living costs cheaper and helps the environment and global warming, "all this they say they want to do away with. It's not what they're for – what they're for is what they're against."
"I'm the most pro-union president in American history."
"These new MAGA Republicans don't show any respect" for blue collar union people.
"We need 51. We actually need 53 votes," he says of the Senate.
"We need John badly. Not a joke. It's all of these items, all these things. We have passed more major legislation in the first two years than any president in American history."
Touts 700,000 new manufacturing jobs and his "made in America" rule for certain projects, while noting that "people are really angry" about that (possibly referring to European competitors, but not sure).
Touts huge investments in "new technologies employing thousands of people."
"We have employed 10 million additional workers."
"unemployment is at the second lowest rate in all of American history."
"We have to remind people what the Republicans are for, this new Republican party. This is not you father's Republican party."
Said that Republicans secretly agree with him . "I've had six Republican senators… and I promised I would never say their names and I will never reveal who they are"
"We have to change this… if we lose this off year election we're in real trouble. America's at a real inflection point."
"They said that if they win they're likely to not continue to fund Ukraine…. They have no sense of American foreign policy"
"These guys on the other team don't get it. They don't get it that how America does is going to determine how the rest of the world does"
"They look to us as a leader. They look to us … because they're not as big or as powerful."
Recalls how at his first G7 meeting he told leaders "America's back and one of the other heads of state turned to me and said 'for how long'?"
On Jan 6 "a bunch of thugs attacked the United States Capitol." And "then they come along and they're called patriots and heroes."
"The rest of the world is looking at this election as well, both the good guys and the bad guys out there to see what, they want to see what's going to happen."
John's "got to win."
"if in fact we lose the Senate, say goodbye to lower medical costs. Gone."
"I've watched these ads going after John on law enforcement" he says, but says Fetterman will help him ban assault weapons.
"we took on big Pharma, we beat them."
Republicans are "for raising the drug prices…, for lifting the cap on costs for seniors, they're for doin away with the biggest climate change (law) in history."
"We've laid all the groundwork and if we're able to win, I've never been more optimistic"
Biden reiterated his frequent praise for young people today as the most informed, most activist generation ever, but said "if we don't step up and do our part, they're going to get so damned cynical about what we can do."
"we've got to get out every single person we know to vote, vote, vote."
"If we keep the Senate, keep the House, we're going to pass, codify Roe v Wade," he said to applause.
"We're going to make sure Roe v Wade becomes the law of the land."
Of the woman's vote, he repeated his line "you ain't seen nothing yet."
"We have so much potential to change so much, to make the country so much better."
"I want to be standing next to big John when he wins, because John, you have character, pal, and it matters."
Other speakers' quotes:
Rep Brendan Boyle:
"Whichever candidate in whichever party wins the Pennsylvania Senate race is going to control the US Senate"
He says Oz is a "phony, a fake and a fraud," and "I don't say just say that because he lives in New Jersey."
Sen Bob Casey:
Says Oz is getting "corporate dollars" but tells the guests here that "your dollars add up a lot more."
"They're dumping all that corporate money on his head because they're driving him down because the other guy can't rise."
"I was just with President Biden in Pittsburgh. There's a bridge that fell down there in January of this year and because of the infrastructure bill that technically was bipartisan – but only 10 percent of Republicans in Congress voted for…"
Predicts a Democrat increased majority in the Senate where Fetterman is "gonna be the 52nd vote."
"We cannot go back to the days where corporate interests are running Washington."
Gisele Fetterman: introduced herself as a former Dreamer and second lady of Pennsylvania, "better known as SLOP."
Described falling in love him.
"John isn't your typical politician: first he's way too handsome." He also doesn't "dress like one" or act" like one.
"In less than three weeks, John will win this race and in January he'll get to work to continue fighting for every community, every city and every town that is left behind."
John Fetterman (arrives to a standing ovation from the 100 or so people seated in the gold-painted chairs):
"I like to think I hope I'm a little draw," he jokes to the crowd, noting that people here may have come for the president. "Of course, Gisele always come before me because she's really everyone's favorite. That goes for my own parents, that goes for our own kids, with the dogs."
He says that the Democrat primaries featured many good candidates and "especially after my medial issue, you know I always was wondering was I the best candidate?.... I do absolutely know that I'm a much better candidate than Dr Oz."
"You might be wondering what's wrong with him – why's he wearing a suit?" laughter. "I'm not going to lie to you: this is the one suit that I own!"
Calls himself "a regular candidate of a regular guy."
Recalling how he accompanied Biden at the collapsed bridge in Pittsburgh eight months ago wearing shorts, he said "in my defense I wasn't expecting to meet with the president at a bridge."
The infrastructure bill, he said "is about building a bridge in less than a year that normally would have taken five years to build."
He says that the infrastructure bill should not be a partisan issue. "I'm really cheering it just because I'm a dude that drives over bridges with my kids in the back seat. Elections matter and that bill was a giant, big win for Pennsylvania."
Infrastructure "creates good, union, family-sustaining jobs."
"I'd like to address the elephant in the room and it's not because I'm wearing a suit. But as you know I had a stroke. I had a stroke back in may. I was just on my way to go to an event, late in the primary, and I was walking out of a Sheetzs bathroom, not a Wawa…."
Says he wanted to deny he was having a stroke and carry on to his planned event but "thankfully they got me to the hospital quick."
"Gisele saved my life too."
"I had really to consider mortality and all these issues. It's really jarring."
"I ask people… how many of you personally have had a personal health crisis in your life?... The hands go up: it's two thirds or more, the hands go up in the air."
"People I hope do not have a doctor in their lives making fun of it, making jokes about it… I have a doctor in my life doing those things. Unfortunately you will have a doctor in you life for six years if we don't make sure."
"Dr Oz never lets me forget that I had a stroke."
"Ask yourself a question: what kind of doctor roots for a person who is to stay sick…. Sometimes I'll miss a word or I'll mush two words together some time."
"In January I'll be feeling much better, but Dr Oz will still be a fraud."
"He'll say anything for a buck, he'll say anything for a vote."
"What has Dr Oz ever done anything about fighting crime?" A few in crowd responded "nothing."
"he certainly doesn't live in a kind of community that hears gunfire or has to fight gun violence."
"he's been in Pennsylvania for five minutes."
Says he wants to be the "51st vote" in the Senate and wants "to get rid of the filibuster."
"Raise our minimum wage. $7.25 an hour is a disgrace."
"The union way of life is sacred."
Healthcare, "defending democracy," saying "find democracy useful sometimes."
"Codify Roe v Wade."
Says the Oz spending on ads has "Tightened the race here and we expected that it would. But if I had $70 million I could probably convince you that you're a Cowboys fan – maybe, a little bit." (crowd boos).
"It's gonna be close."
"Please send Dr Oz back to New Jersey and send me to DC to be that 51st vote."
The WH sends this speaking program:
Speaking ProgramRep. Dwight Evans (PA-03)Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)Senator Bob Casey (PA)Gisele Fetterman, Spouse of Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)The President



October 20, 202219:21

Travel pool report 20 - motorcade rolling
At 7:19 pm we are rolling. Not in a position to see potus enter his vehicle. Barring any OTR stops our expected destination is the airport and AF1.



October 20, 202219:36

Travel pool report 21 - airport + fuller Ukraine quote
At 7:32 pm the motorcade arrived at AF1. Potus boarded immediately and we are wheels up for JBA momentarily.
Also here is a fuller (and slightly cleaner quote on the Ukraine funding)
"They said that if they win they're not likely to fund, to continue to fund Ukraine."
"These guys don't get it. It's a lot bigger than Ukraine. It's Eastern Europe. It's NATO. It's really serious, serious consequential outcomes."
"They have no sense of American foreign policy"
"These guys on the other team don't get it. They don't get it that how America does is going to determine how the rest of the world does"
"They look to us as a leader. They look to us … because they're not as big or as powerful."



October 20, 202219:43

Travel pool report 22 - wheels up and travelers
At 7:43 pm, AF1 was wheels up for the approx 40 minutes flight.
The WH provides this list of travelers:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Philadelphia International Airport:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorElizabeth Jurinka, Special Assistant to the President & Senate Legislative Affairs LiaisonMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator



October 20, 202220:27

Travel pool report 22 - JBA/handover[APP Note: See commnent in Report #23 about the numbering of this report.]
AF1 landed at JBA at 8:09 pm after a smooth flight marked only by the appearance of an oddly shaped snack best described as a cornucopia of dried treats, anchored by popcorn and mini pretzels. Chief of Staff Ron Klain was on the airplane TV (tuned to CNN) as we touched down.
POTUS disembarked at 8:20 pm and walked to Marine One, which was up at 8:26.
From the WH: Greeting the President on arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Handing off to in town pool. Thanks to Politico’s Adam Cancryn for some epic rush quotes assist back in the sandwich shop.
Good evening.



October 20, 202220:36

Travel pool report 23 - marine 1 travelers + renumbering
please note the previous report (landing at JBA) should have been marked 23 not 22. For good form I pasted it again here as the real 23.
Also this final snippet of info from the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffKate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryMitch Landrieu, Senior Advisor & Infrastructure Act Implementation Coordinator
AF1 landed at JBA at 8:09 pm after a smooth flight marked only by the appearance of an oddly shaped snack best described as a cornucopia of dried treats, anchored by popcorn and mini pretzels. Chief of Staff Ron Klain was on the airplane TV (tuned to CNN) as we touched down.
POTUS disembarked at 8:20 pm and walked to Marine One, which was up at 8:26.
From the WH: Greeting the President on arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Handing off to in town pool. Thanks to Politico’s Adam Cancryn for some epic rush quotes assist back in the sandwich shop.
Good evening.



October 20, 202220:59

Travel pool report 19* - Fetterman quote on Oz expanded
If you can stand it here is another add to the chain to clean up one of Fetterman's quotes. Thanks to Eli Stokols for querying it and apologies — a lot of fast typing and no time to go back over.
Here is the quote with the missing word added in caps:
"Ask yourself a question: what kind of doctor roots for a person who is SICK to stay sick…. Sometimes I'll miss a word or I'll mush two words together sometimes."




  