
    The President today announced a series of administration initiatives to deal with the problems of low-level ionizing radiation. His decisions came after a yearlong, interagency analysis to consider the need for better public information, guidelines for protection of workers and citizens, research questions, potential compensation issues, and coordination of the Government's programs. The analysis was chaired by HEW and coordinated by the Domestic Policy Staff (DPS) and the Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP).
The President approved the establishment of a Radiation Policy Council to advise on broad radiation policy, coordinate Federal activities that use or control the use of radiation, resolve problems of jurisdiction, recommend legislation, ensure effective liaison with States and the Congress, and provide a forum for public input. This Council will be chaired by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency and will include high-level officials from the other relevant agencies. It will have a 4-year sunset provision.
The President reaffirmed the lead role of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in the issuance of guidance for protection from radiation. EPA will work closely with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), and other agencies.
The President directed the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and OSTP to assure, during the preparation of his FY 1981 budget request, a sound research program on the long-term health effects of low-level radiation. The roles of the HEW agencies (the National Institutes of Health (NIH), FDA, and the Center for Disease Control), the Department of Energy, and other agencies in the research program will be decided through the cross-agency budget review.
An Interagency Radiation Research Committee, chaired by the Director of NIH, will review the kinds of research needed and the quality of research in this area supported by the Federal Government.
In addition, a task force, already established to examine criteria for compensation for civilians exposed to unusual radiation hazards, was given the additional assignment of assessing criteria for workers and veterans.
These administration initiatives are expected to improve substantially the Government's programs to protect the American people from unnecessary radiation exposure from medical, occupational, and environmental sources and to enhance public understanding of radiation and radiation protection.
  