
    This week, more than 1,100 Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders (AAPIs) endorsed Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for President and Vice President of the United States. The endorsement, organized by DNC AAPI Caucus Chair Bel Leong-Hong, features a broad and diverse coalition of AAPI leaders from all backgrounds and ethnicities across the country.
See highlights from the endorsement below and read the full list here:
More than 1,100 Who's Who of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders Endorse Biden/Harris During the Final Week before Election Day
In the final week before Election Day, more than 1,100 prominent members of the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) community endorsed Joe Biden for President and Kamala Harris for Vice President. The signatories represent AAPI leaders from all backgrounds and ethnicities across the country, and build on the previous list of 250 AAPI endorsers that was released in July 2020.
"Never before has the AAPI community banded together with such unity and excitement in a presidential election," said DNC AAPI Caucus Chair Bel Leong-Hong, who organized the list. "We are made up of almost 20 different ethnic groups yet are united in our resounding support for Biden and Harris to lead our country and world out of the mess Trump has created. We come from all different walks of life, with separate languages, culture and heritage, but we share the same hopes and dreams for a better future. I applaud the Biden-Harris campaign's historical outreach efforts to the AAPI community to make sure they are engaged, empowered and represented. We are all proud to vote for Joe Biden and Kamal to be the next President and Vice President of the United States."
The list of more than 1,100 supporters includes prominent members of the Democratic Party, including the Democratic National Committee and the AAPIs for Biden Coalition, which is made up of more than fourteen affinity groups, including AAPI Staffers for Biden, AAPI Veterans and Military Families for Biden, Chinese Americans for Biden, Filipino Americans for Biden, Hmong Americans for Biden, Japanese Americans for Biden, Korean Americans for Biden, Native Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders for Biden, Queer AAPIs for Biden, South Asians for Biden, Taiwanese Americans for Biden, Thai Americans for Biden, Vietnamese Americans for Biden, and Young AAPIs for Biden.
Among the endorsers are a few notable individuals from the arts, fashion and entertainment industry, such as Connie Chung, Phillip Lim, David Henry Hwang, Lou Diamond Phillips, Prabal Gurung, Maulik Pancholy, Humberto Leon, Carol Lim and Chloe Bennet, who usually don't publicly support candidates. Also included are respected medical professionals, business and religious leaders, as well as community advocates and public officials, including Ambassador Gary Locke, former Ambassador to China, and Rear Admiral Kenneth Moritsugu, MD, MPH, USPHS(ret), former Surgeon General of the United States, in addition to elected Democratic leaders at the highest level such as Congresswoman Grace Meng, ASPIRE PAC Chair, Congresswoman Judy Chu, ASPIRE PAC Founder and Immediate Past Chair, U.S. Senator Mazie Hirono and U.S. Senator Tammy Duckworth.
  