
    Governors of New Mexico, Colorado, Oregon, and Washington Send Joint Letter to Congressional Leadership
SANTA FE -- Governor Richardson today joined with Governors Bill Ritter of Colorado, Ted Kulongoski of Oregon, and Christine Gregoire of Washington calling on Congress to incorporate the best provisions of the House and Senate versions of the Energy Bill into a final bill and pass it this year.
The Governors sent a joint letter (full text below) to Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid applauding their dedication to crafting comprehensive energy legislation and calling for a final bill with the most environmentally progressive provisions included.
"Members of Congress -- including New Mexico's Jeff Bingaman and Tom Udall -- have worked hard to shepherd bills through the Senate and House," said New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson. "Congress must make a final push before the recess to pass a bill with a strong renewable electricity standard (RES), increased vehicle fuel economy standards, tax credit extensions for renewable energy production and solar investment, and energy efficiency incentives and standards. I also urge Congress not to penalize states, which have stronger, cleaner environmental regulation by requiring them to meet a weaker federal standard."
Specifically, the letter called for inclusion of at least the following provisions in final energy legislation:

A Strong Renewable Electricity Portfolio Standard. The House bill included a renewable electricity standard (RES) that would require utilities to produce 15% of their electricity from renewables by 2020.
Increased Vehicle Fuel Economy Standards. The Senate bill raises the average fleet-wide standard to 35 miles per gallon (mpg) by 2020, while providing auto manufacturers with greater compliance flexibility under a system with different mileage requirements according to vehicle size. Increasing fuel economy standards is critical for reducing our dependence on foreign oil, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and saving consumers money.
An extension of the Renewable Energy Production Tax Credit and the Solar Investment Tax Credit. The renewable energy production tax credit should be extended at least through 2013, and the solar investment tax credit through 2016, to provide a more certain investment environment for renewable energy.
Energy Efficiency Incentives and Standards. The House and Senate included a number of critical energy efficiency measures that save consumers money, help address climate change, and reduce the need for building new fossil fuel electricity generation. This includes important new energy efficiency standards for light bulbs, dishwashers, and clothes washers, and potential improvements in building codes. The letter also encourages Congress to include tax incentives that the Senate considered for efficient commercial and residential buildings and manufacturers of energy efficient appliances in the final bill.

In addition to these essential provisions, the Governors called for inclusion of several other elements:

Secure rural schools reauthorization. The Senate bill included a provision reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. The Governors support reauthorization to provide important funding for rural communities.
Landowner protections. Many landowners in the Western states live on "split estates" where landowners do not own the mineral rights beneath their surface property. The House-passed energy bill would bring federal law closer to laws passed in New Mexico and Colorado, requiring mineral, oil, and gas extraction companies to secure a surface use agreement with the landowner, and provide special permit conditions and a bond that protects surface owners' interests.

The full text of the letter is below:




Bill Ritter
        State of Colorado
Bill Richardson
        State of New Mexico
Ted Kulongoski
        State of Oregon
Christine Gregoire
        State of Washington





October 30, 2007
Senator Harry Reid
        Senate Majority Leader
        528 Hart Senate Office Building
        Washington, DC 20510
Representative Nancy Pelosi
        Speaker of the House
        235 Cannon House Office Building
        Washington, DC 20515
Dear Senator Reid and Speaker Pelosi:
We applaud your dedication to crafting comprehensive energy legislation this year. The versions passed by the Senate and the House contain critical measures to increase our energy independence, promote renewable energy sources, increase efficiency, and protect natural resources.
If enacted, these policies would be a positive first step forward. While they do not include the complete range of critical energy and climate issues we support, we appreciate your leadership and encourage you to continue to press forward in those areas expeditiously.
Our states are leaders in actions to drive clean and diversified energy investments, and we are encouraged by your efforts at the federal level. We are writing to urge you to incorporate the best provisions of both bills into a final energy bill this year.
Specifically, we urge you to include at least the following provisions in the final legislation. Individual Governors may have additional recommendations.

A Strong Renewable Electricity Portfolio Standard. The House bill included a renewable electricity standard (RES) that would require utilities to produce 15% of their electricity from renewables by 2020. Our states have adopted similar standards that have increased production of clean, renewable energy from sources like wind, solar, biomass, and geothermal while creating clean energy jobs. We encourage you to adopt a national RES that does not limit a respective state's ability to develop the most advantageous mix of clean energy resources and does not exempt compliance with a state standard.
Increased Vehicle Fuel Economy Standards. The Senate bill raises the average fleet-wide standard to 35 miles per gallon (mpg) by 2020, while providing auto manufacturers with greater compliance flexibility under a system with different mileage requirements according to vehicle size. Increasing fuel economy standards is critical for reducing our dependence on foreign oil, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and saving consumers money.
An extension of the Renewable Energy Production Tax Credit and the Solar Investment Tax Credit. The renewable energy production tax credit should be extended at least through 2013, and the solar investment tax credit through 2016, to provide a more certain investment environment for renewable energy. Extending these tax credits in two-year increments, as has been done in the past, is inadequate for stimulating long-term investments in renewable energy.
Energy Efficiency Incentives and Standards. The House and Senate included a number of critical energy efficiency measures that save consumers money, help address climate change, and reduce the need for building new fossil fuel electricity generation. This includes important new energy efficiency standards for light bulbs, dishwashers, and clothes washers, and potential improvements in building codes. We also encourage you to include tax incentives that the Senate considered for efficient commercial and residential buildings and manufacturers of energy efficient appliances in the final bill.

In addition to these essential provisions for our energy future, there are several other elements under consideration that would benefit our citizens, including:

Secure rural schools reauthorization. The Senate bill included a provision reauthorizing the Secure Rural Schools and Community Self-Determination Act. We support reauthorization to provide important funding for rural communities.
Landowner protections. Many landowners in the Western states live on "split estates" where landowners do not own the mineral rights beneath their surface property. The House-passed energy bill would bring federal law closer to laws passed in New Mexico and Colorado, requiring mineral, oil, and gas extraction companies to secure a surface use agreement with the landowner, and provide special permit conditions and a bond that protects surface owners' interests.

Thank you again for your dedication and leadership in finalizing an energy bill this year.
Sincerely,



Bill Ritter, Jr.
              Governor of Colorado
Bill Richardson
              Governor of New Mexico


Ted Kulongoski
              Governor of Oregon
Christine Gregoire
              Governor of Washington



cc: Members of Congress




  