
    Edwards visits New Orleans on Saturday to build with Habitat for Humanity at The Musicians' Village and deliver keynote at National Day of Climate Action rally
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – On Saturday, November 3rd, 2007, five winners of an online contest sponsored by the Edwards campaign will join Senator John Edwards and other Habitat for Humanity volunteers in New Orleans' Upper 9th Ward for a day of rebuilding the area devastated by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita just two years ago.
In September, the campaign launched the "Build with John" online contest, keeping with Edwards' promise to create big, bold change on the issues that matter by giving five supporters the chance to work alongside Edwards in an effort he cares deeply about -- rebuilding New Orleans. Rather than offering the chance to attend fancy dinners or hobnob with celebrities, Edwards wanted to offer his supporters the chance to roll up their sleeves and make a difference by helping others.
The five supporters who will join Edwards in New Orleans on Saturday were chosen randomly from thousands who entered the "Build with John" contest via the campaign website, www.JohnEdwards.com. They are: Christi Foley from Cincinnati, Ohio; Mark Williams from Colleyville, Texas; Terence Davis from Malibu, California; Brenda Stone from Millwood, New York; and Sandra Campbell from Key West, Florida.
Edwards and the five contest winners will join other Habitat for Humanity volunteers in a build at the area known as "The Musicians' Village." A project of New Orleans Area Habitat for Humanity (NOAHH) conceived by award-winning musicians and New Orleans' natives Harry Connick, Jr. and Branford Marsalis, The Musicians' Village concept consists of 72 single-family, Habitat-constructed homes for displaced New Orleans musicians and other qualifying Habitat partner families. Its centerpiece is the Ellis Marsalis Center for Music, dedicated to the education and development of homeowners and others who live nearby. Construction began in March 2006, and the first ten homeowners moved into their new homes in August 2006.
Later in the day, Edwards will deliver the keynote address on his plan to stop global warming at a National Day of Climate Action rally sponsored by Step it Up in New Orleans.
The details of the events are as follows:
Saturday, November 3rd, 2007
1:00PM CT-3:00PM CT
Edwards to join supporters and Habitat for Humanity volunteers for build at The Musicians' Village.
1900 block of Bartholomew Street (Between North Johnson and North Prieur)
New Orleans, Louisiana
3:30PM CT
Edwards to deliver keynote at Step It Up 2007 National Day of Climate Action rally.
ArtEgg Building
1001 S. Broad Street
New Orleans, Louisiana
***NOTE: Both events are open to the media and to the public. Press wishing to travel with the campaign to and/or from New Orleans on Saturday should contact Audrey Waters at (919) 636-3157 or awaters@johnedwards.com. Space is limited.
  