
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

United Nations Day is an opportunity for us to reemphasize the principles upon which the United Nations was founded. The framers of the United Nations Charter envisioned a world where nations live together in freedom, justice, and peace, a world with universal and reciprocal respect for human rights and human dignity.
The United Nations General Assembly took a historic first step last year by adopting reforms aimed at strengthening the organization's effectiveness and efficiency. The ideals of the United Nations are important to the United States. We are committed to working closely with other member states and with the Secretary General to see that the reforms are faithfully implemented and to secure the organization's future.
We are pleased that reform efforts are extending to the specialized and technical agencies of the United Nations. These agencies are not well-known, but do affect us directly and on a daily basis. For instance, the Weather Watch of the World Meteorological Organization helps us know when and where storms will hit American cities. The International Maritime Organization and International Civil Aviation Organization work for safety on the seas and in the skies for American travelers. The Food and Agricultural Organization saves U.S. farmers, foresters, and fishermen countless dollars in damage every year. The International Atomic Energy Agency helps promote international cooperation and safeguards regarding nuclear technology, and the World Health Organization coordinates global efforts against AIDS.
One of the youngest specialized agencies, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD), was established to mobilize financial resources and make them available for agricultural projects specifically designed to improve food production systems in the poorest food-deficient regions of the world. In just 10 years, IFAD has financed more than 200 projects in developing countries that, when fully implemented, will boost food production by more than 22 million tons a year.
Our world—every nation, every people, every individual—can know the blessings of peace and see the light of freedom and justice in the future if we have the courage to build on the hope of the past—the hope upon which the United Nations was built.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Saturday, October 24, 1987, as United Nations Day. I urge all Americans to acquaint themselves with the activities and accomplishments of the United Nations. I have appointed J. Willard Marriott, Jr., to serve as 1987 United States Chairman for United Nations Day, and I welcome the role of the United Nations Association of the United States of America in working with him to celebrate this special day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  