
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and AgenciesSubject: Survey of Congressional Constituent Problems
Senators and Congressmen devote a good portion of their time and staff resources, as you know, to helping individual constituents deal with government agencies. Richard Pettigrew, my Assistant for Reorganization, recently conducted a survey of Senate and House offices aimed at identifying those areas of government causing constituents the most problems. This survey has yielded a wealth of information on the daily concerns of both the Congress and the average citizen in dealing with their government.
Responses received so far reflect a strong consensus as to the need for improved program effectiveness in particular areas. They provide us a unique opportunity to improve government's competence in serving the average citizen. They suggest problems, moreover, which are historic in nature and predate this Administration. These problems affect the daily lives of millions. The success we have in dealing with them will therefore bear substantial benefits for great numbers of people. For this reason, their correction deserves priority attention.
By its very nature, congressional casework highlights trouble spots and may not present a full picture of agency performance. I am aware too that departments and agencies are already taking action to address problems identified in the survey. Some of these problems may be beyond agencies' immediate control and have a statutory basis. Because these complaints involve the direct, day-to-day dealings of average citizens with their government, however, I would like to report to the public and the Congress as soon as possible on the steps we are taking to address them.
Please report to the Office of Management and Budget the efforts you now have underway, or the specific efforts you plan to take, to address those complaints involving your agency. This information should be included as part of your regular monthly reorganization progress report which is due December 5.
JIMMY CARTER
  