
    New pair of legislative endorsements come after Klobuchar's strong debate performance
CEDAR RAPIDS, IA — Iowa State Senator Liz Mathis and State Representative Andy McKean today endorsed U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for President. Mathis has represented Senate District 34 since 2011 and becomes Klobuchar's first endorsement from a sitting member of the Iowa Senate.
McKean, who switched from the Republican to Democratic Party in April over objections to Donald Trump's conduct, cited Klobuchar's vision, experience and desire to unite the country in announcing his support.
"Having the support of Sen. Liz Mathis and Rep. Andy McKean is a testament to the growing enthusiasm we see across Iowa for Amy Klobuchar's candidacy," said Lauren Dillon, Iowa State Director. "With the addition of these two renowned lawmakers, Sen. Klobuchar now has the support of 13 current and former members of the Iowa Legislature - more than any other Democratic candidate for president. We're thrilled to have their support as we kick off our 'For All of America' bus tour to take this campaign's message across the Hawkeye State."
During her time in the Senate, Mathis has been a leader in efforts to protect collective bargaining rights, expand access to affordable health care and invest in mental health services, particularly for children.
"Throughout her career, Amy has worked tirelessly to address the needs of working families, including affordable healthcare and mental health services," said Senator Liz Mathis. "Our country needs a leader with Amy's priorities in the White House, and that's why I am thrilled to endorse her for the Democratic nomination for president."
McKean made national headlines in April when he publicly announced he was leaving the Republican Party to become a Democrat. At the time, he was the longest-serving Republican in the history of the State Legislature.
"Amy Klobuchar has a proven record of leadership, and I am proud to support her campaign for president," said Representative Andy McKean. "Since her election in 2006, Amy has been one of the most effective members of the U.S. Senate, leading more than 100 bills and amendments that have become law. She has the smarts, vision, and grit we need to defeat Donald Trump and reunite the country."
McKean is the second Iowa legislator who left the Republican Party while in office, citing Donald Trump and the actions of the current Republican Party in their decision to switch parties. The other, former State Senator David Johnson, has also endorsed Klobuchar.
The endorsements come as Klobuchar prepares to kick off her 3-day "For All of America" bus tour across Eastern and Central Iowa, which will take her to a number of Obama-Trump pivot counties. Both McKean and Mathis will appear with Klobuchar at her kickoff event in Cedar Rapids this morning.
  