
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 28
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
September 29
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
September 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Representative Parren J. Mitchell of Maryland;
—Governor Bob Graham of Florida;
—Representative James C. Corman of California and artist Peter Max, who donated a lithograph of the Statue of Liberty to the Democratic Campaign Committee to raise money for Democratic candidates.
The President announced the recess appointments of three persons as Representatives and four persons as Alternate Representatives to the 35th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations. These persons were nominated on September 22, but were not confirmed by the Senate before it adjourned. They are:
Representatives
DONALD F. McHENRY, U.S. Representative to the United Nations;
WILLIAM J. VANDEN HEUVEL, Deputy U.S. Representative to the United Nations;
HANNAH D. ATKINS, Oklahoma State representative. Alternate Representatives
NATHAN LANDOW, president, Landow and Co., Bethesda, Md.;
BARBARA NEWSOM, trustee and secretary, the L. S. B. Leakey Foundation, Pasadena, Calif.;
RICHARD W. PETREE, Deputy U.S. Representative to the Security Council of the United Nations;
H. CARL MCCALL, U.S. Alternate Representative for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations.
The President announced that he will nominate Brig. Gen. Hugh Granville Robinson, of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, to be a member of the Mississippi River Commission. He would replace Maj. Gen. Richard Harris, who is retiring. Robinson, 48, is division engineer of the Army Engineer Division, Southwestern.
October 1
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski.
October 2
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski.
The White House announced that the President declared a major disaster for the State of California as a result of flooding, beginning on September 26, which caused extensive property damage.
October 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Jody Powell, Press Secretary to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison.
  