
    Pool Reports by Swin Suebsaeng, The Daily Beast



Sent:
Reports:




 October 9, 2020 10:51

 in town print pool report 1 - good morning 
Hi, all,
Quiet morning so far at the White House, where it's currently sunny 63-degree weather. As of this time on Friday morning, a COVID-positive President Trump has no events listed on his public schedule, though he is expected to call into conservative radio host Rush Limbaugh's program today for a "virtual rally."
Your pooler got a COVID test and had his temperature taken by on-site personnel earlier this hour. Stay healthy and safe out there, everyone. 


 October 9, 2020 12:02

 in town print pool report 2 - Larry Kudlow 
Before noon here at the White House, President Trump's top White House economic adviser Larry Kudlow briefly huddled with reporters outdoors, and claimed that the president had settled on a "revised" coronavirus stimulus package, though he would not go into specific details and there was no indication Democrats had signed on. He added that Treasury secretary Steve Mnuchin and House speaker Nancy Pelosi would be negotiating.
Kudlow did not get into specifics beyond saying that President Trump had made decisions on matters such as "economic assistance on checks" and airlines—"breakthrough stuff," he alleged—and declined to offer up any actual specifics repeatedly when pressed by reporters present. "Stay tuned," he repeated, adding that he "used to say that at the end of my [CNBC] show." 


 October 9, 2020 12:34

 in town print pool report 3 - lunch 
At 12:31 p.m. ET, the Trump White House called a lunch lid lasting until 1:30 p.m. ET today. Chat soon. 


 October 9, 2020 15:28

 in town print pool report 4 - Alyssa Farah / Marine 
Shortly after 3 p.m. ET, White House spokeswoman Alyssa Farah huddled briefly with reporters present today and answered a question about President Trump's "support for the Israeli people." She also said that the Trump administration was "willing to come up on the level" regarding coronavirus stimulus negotiations with Democrats on Capitol Hill, but stated the administration's position that they want to keep the pricetag "below two trillion" dollars.
Just around the time Farah was wrapping up her short Q&A, a Marine was spotted guarding the West Wing doors, which generally signals that the president is in the West Wing. At of 3:26 p.m. ET, the Marine went back indoors. (Earlier this week, a COVID-positive President Trump had returned to work and activity in the Oval Office.)


 October 9, 2020 15:53

 in town print pool report 5 - Alyssa Farah follow-up 
At around 3:40 p.m. ET, White House spokeswoman Alyssa Farah called your pooler to give an update on her remarks earlier this hour: "My remarks were confirming what the president had said earlier, and that he was willing to come up on our previous offer of 1.6 trillion." Farah added that her statement was reflective of an offer being made by Treasury secretary Steve Mnuchin, which was $1.8 trillion. She reiterated that the administration wants to "stay below 2 trillion." 


 October 9, 2020 17:27

 in town print pool report 6 - travel/photo lid 
At 5:24 p.m. ET, the Trump White House called a photo/travel lid, just 20 minutes after President Trump posted to Twitter that he "will be in Sanford, Florida on Monday for a very BIG RALLY!"
Have a great weekend, everyone. Stay safe out there. [emoji] 



  