
    To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with the provisions of section 5305 of Title 5 of the United States Code, I hereby report on the pay adjustments I ordered for the Federal statutory pay systems in October 1982.
The Secretary of Labor, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, and the Director of the Office of. Personnel Management, who serve jointly as my Pay Agent, found that an overall increase of about 18.47 percent in General Schedule rates of pay would be required to achieve comparability with private sector pay as that concept is defined in the Federal Pay Comparability Act of 1970. The Advisory Committee on Federal Pay agreed with that finding.
The Comparability Act gives me authority to propose an alternative adjustment in lieu of comparability, if such action is appropriate because of economic conditions. The Budget Resolution adopted by the Congress last June, which I supported, anticipated an increase of 4 percent this October in support of our economic recovery program. Accordingly, on August 26, 1982 I sent to the Congress an alternative plan which called for an increase of 4 percent at each grade. Neither House of Congress disapproved this alternative plan, so on October 8, 1982 I signed Executive Order No. 12387 implementing it.
Under that Executive Order:
—The scheduled rates of pay under the statutory pay systems (the General Schedule, the Foreign Service Schedule, and the schedules for the Department of Medicine and Surgery of the Veterans Administration) were increased by 4 percent in accordance with the alternative plan.
—The scheduled rates of pay for the Vice President and the Executive Schedule and Congressional and Judicial salaries were increased, under the provisions of Public Law 94-82, by the overall 4 percent in rates of pay under the General Schedule.
—The scheduled rates of pay for the Senior Executive Service were increased under the provisions of section 5382 of Title 5 of the United States Code based on the new rate of pay for GS-16, step 1, of the General Schedule and the new rate of pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule.
—The scheduled rates of pay and allowances for members of the Uniformed Services were increased, in accordance with the provisions of section 1009 of Title 37 of the United States Code, by the overall 4 percent in rates of pay under the General Schedule.
The Order also reflects the effects of section 140 of Public Law 97-92 (the continuing resolution approved December 15, 1981) and section 101(e) of Public Law 97276 (the continuing resolution approved October 2, 1982), which contain limitations on payable salaries for certain top level Government positions.
I am transmitting herewith copies of the reports of my Pay Agent and the Advisory Committee on Federal Pay, my alternative plan, and the Executive Order I promulgated to put these pay adjustments into effect.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
October 25, 1982.
  