
    The Clinton campaign announced today the formation of the Georgia Women for Hillary Council. The Council is made up of women from across the state who will be active leaders in Georgia, speaking to their friends, family and associates about this election, and helping to grow the network of women across America supporting Hillary Clinton's campaign.
This announcement is part of the campaign's week long focus on Women Changing America. During the week, the campaign is highlighting the decisive role women can play in this election, discussing issues important to women, and celebrating the ways that women are changing America everyday.
"In 35 years as an advocate for women, children and families, I know that women can make a powerful difference," Hillary said. "Women are changing America and I am so proud to welcome the Georgia Women for Hillary Council to our campaign. Working together, we will address the issues of concern to women and families, and how we can make the changes America needs."
Members of the Georgia Women for Hillary Council will join Hillary for a conference call this week. They are encouraged to be ambassadors for Hillary by reaching out to their networks on Hillary's behalf while also educating and empowering others to make history by making Hillary our 44th President.
Rev. Dr. Barbara L. King, the Founder and Spiritual Leader of Hillside Chapel and Truth Center added, "I support Hillary Clinton for President because of her leadership, her courage, and her strength. Hillary Clinton brings a powerful healing voice that can rebuild our alliances abroad and unite Americans to solve our challenges here at home."
Hillary kicked off the week with an appearance on The View and spoke at the Eleanor Roosevelt Legacy Committee's Annual Fall Campaign Luncheon in New York. On Tuesday, she traveled to New Hampshire to announce a new policy proposal to help parents balance work and family life. On Wednesday, nearly 1,000 women contributors from 47 states around the country will convene for a women's summit in support of the Clinton campaign - a full-day event that will raise well over $1 million. And on Thursday, Hillary will discuss the importance of health care for women when she participates in the Presidential Candidate Forums organized by the Federation of American Hospitals and Families USA and hosts a conference call with health care professionals from the American Medical Women's Association.
The week's events underscore why Hillary enjoys such deep support among women voters by emphasizing how her strength and experience make her the candidate best able to deliver change on the issues most important to them.
"Before Hillary Clinton, I could only hope to see a woman elected to the Presidency in my lifetime. Now I see America's best hope, male or female, is Hillary Clinton," said Melanie Goux, a Democratic activist.
The members of the Georgia Women for Hillary Council reflect Hillary's vast and diverse supporters, spanning all occupations and communities.
Hillary's Georgia Women for Hillary Council includes: 

Aayesha Reese, Lithonia
Angela Clyde, Atlanta
Angela Walton, Atlanta
Anna Purcella-Doll, Cumming
Banke Ayedun, Augusta
Dr. Reverend Barbara L. King, Atlanta
Barbara Mitchell, Albany
Benita Smith, Atlanta
Beth Stone Hand, Cumming
Betty H. Hunt, Moultrie
Brenda Foye Cornelius, Decatur
Carol Thompson, Warner Robins
Cheryl Williams, Duluth
Daisy Taste, Atlanta
Danielle Blackwell, Albany
Debbie Hatmaker, Bishop
Donna Aker, Loganville
Donna Cummins, Decatur
Dorothea Dawkins-Haigler, Lithonia
Erin O'Neil, Atlanta
Erin ONeil, Atlanta
Gail Hicklin, Jonesboro
Gloria Moore, Atlanta
Janet Seelen, Hawkinsville
Joan Neal, Fayetteville
LeAnne Lawton-Tancred, Powder Springs
Linda Edmonds, Decatur
Linda Muir, Atlanta
Lindsey Hunt, Atlanta
Lisa Hawkins, Atlanta
Loretta Ross, Atlanta
Luanne Clarke, Atlanta
Melanie Goux, Atlanta
Michelle Schurig, Atlanta
Miranda Compton, Athens
Mischelle Fortson, Albany
Modupe AinaAkinpelu, Decatur
Nancy Moynihan, Atlanta
Olivia Walker, Lithonia
Paige Swartz, Blairsville
Pamela Jackson, Albany
Pat Pullar, Ellenwood
Rachelle O'Neil, Atlanta
Rhonda Prather, Smyrna
Ruth Bullard, Cumming
Samara Cummins, Decatur
Sandra Ward, Atlanta
Shirley Chancey, Atlanta
Stephanie Davis, Atlanta
Susan Evans, Hampton
Susan Pennington, Atlanta
Suzie Tindall, Atlanta
Terri Provancher, Rossville
Tina Ann Price, Atlanta
Vivian Bishop, Columbus
List in formation...

  