
    The following releases of the Office of the White House Press Secretary, distributed during the period covered by this issue, are not included in the issue.
Released September 30, 1978
News conference: on their meeting to discuss the strategic arms limitation talks—by Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance and Foreign
Minister A. A. Gromyko of the Soviet Union
News conference: following the meeting between Secretary Vance and Foreign Minister Gromyko—by Jody Powell, Press Secretary to the President
Released October 1, 1978
Advance text: remarks on presenting the Congressional Space Medal of Honor Awards at the Kennedy Space Center, Fla.
Announcement: designation of Mrs. Lillian Carter to head the U.S. delegation to Rome for the funeral of His Holiness Pope John Paul I
Released October 2, 1978
News conference: on tuition tax credit legislation-by Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare Joseph A. Califano, Jr.
Fact sheet: administration actions to improve health services and facilities in rural areas
Released October 3, 1978
News conference: on the equal rights amendment extension legislation—by Sarah C. Weddington, Special Assistant to the President
Fact sheet: H.R. 12928, the energy and water development appropriations bill
Released October 4, 1978
News conference: on the energy and water development appropriations bill—by Cecil D. Andrus, Secretary of the Interior, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Clifford L. Alexander, Secretary of the Army
Statements: commendation of the President on his intention to veto the energy and water development appropriations bill—by Governors Robert W. Straub of Oregon, John V. Evans of Idaho, J. James Exon of Nebraska, and Michael O'Callaghan of Nevada
News conference: on the equal rights amendment extension legislation—by Ms. Weddington
Statements: commendation of the President on his intention to veto the energy and water development appropriations bill—by Governors James B. Hunt, Jr., of North Carolina and Jerry Apodaca of New Mexico
Released October 5, 1978
News conference: on the Presidential Commission on World Hunger—by Sol Linowitz, Chairman of the Commission
Released October 6, 1978
News conference: on the agreement reached between the Environmental Protection Agency and the Republic Steel Corporation concerning Republic's compliance with clean air and water standards, modernization of facilities, and continued employment of steelworkers in the Warren and Youngstown, Ohio, areas—by Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, Douglas M. Costie, Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency, W. J. De Lancey, president, Republic Steel Corporation, Lloyd McBride, president, United Steelworkers of America, and Senator John H. Glenn, Jr., of Ohio
News conference: on U.S. arms sales—by Jessica Tuchman Mathews, staff member, National Security Council
  