
    Monday, October 6, 2003
9:10 a.m. - 9:45 a.m.
South Lawn, The White House
9:00 am
The American and Kenyan delegations are escorted to the South Lawn
9:05 am
The President and Mrs. Bush arrive the Diplomatic Reception Room, and proceed outside.
Ruffles and FlourishesAnnouncementHail to the Chief
9:10 am
The President and Mrs. Bush assume positions on the south side of the driveway. (Facing west)
Motorcade carrying President and Mrs. Kibaki enters the White House grounds and proceeds to the Diplomatic entrance.
9:12 am
The Chief of Protocol introduces the President and Mrs. Bush to President and Mrs. Kibaki
The President and Mrs. Bush escort President and Mrs. Kibaki to the front row of the U.S. delegation. The President introduces President and Mrs. Kibaki to:
Secretary and Mrs. PowellVice Chairman and Mrs. Pace
The President and Mrs. Bush then escort President and Mrs. Kibaki onto the reviewing platform. Ceremony begins.
National Anthem of Kenya (simultaneous 21 gun salute)National Anthem of the United States
Following the anthems the 4 principals depart stage to lawn. The President and President Kibaki begin review of the troops.
Review of the Troops:
Commander of the Troops escorts Presidents. Following Review, President Bush escorts ,B>President Kibaki to reviewing stand.Musical Troop in Review (Army Fife and Drum Corps)Commander of Troops concludes the ceremony
President Bush and President Kibaki return to stage to make remarks.
Remarks by The PresidentRemarks by President Kibaki (no interpretation)
The President and President Kibaki face the Troops and the Commander of the Troops indicates that the Ceremony has concluded.
9:40 am
The President and Mrs. Bush escort President and Mrs. Kibaki to the Blue Room Balcony via the Diplomatic Room and State Floor.
9:44 am
The President and Mrs. Bush pose for a photo with President and Mrs. Kibaki between the center columns of the Blue Room Balcony.
9:45 am
The President and Mrs. Bush escort President and Mrs. Kibaki to the State Floor.
  