
    We're on the verge of new technological revolutions that could improve virtually every aspect of our lives, create vast new wealth for American workers and families, and open up bold, new frontiers in science, medicine, and communication.President Donald J. Trump
LEADING THE GLOBAL RACE TO 5G: President Donald J. Trump's Administration will create a National Spectrum Strategy that will position the United States to lead in next generation wireless networks for years to come. 

President Trump directed the Secretary of Commerce to work with agencies and policy makers on all levels to develop a National Spectrum Strategy to guide our country's radiofrequency spectrum (spectrum) policy in the years to come.

The Secretary will report annually to the President on efforts to repurpose spectrum for more efficient and effective use.
President Trump's Memorandum is also creating a Spectrum Strategy Task Force.


With the advent of new wireless technologies and the continuously growing demand for data, the spectrum that fuels these networks must be used efficiently and effectively.
Fifth-generation (5G) wireless technologies will have higher speeds and greater capacity than ever before, but is only possible with an adequate supply of spectrum.
Wireless broadband connectivity brings benefits to nearly every sector of our economy including transportation, agriculture, education, healthcare, and manufacturing.

FUELING INNOVATION AND INVESTMENT: President Trump's forward-looking spectrum strategy will provide a playbook for developing innovative technologies in the years to come. 

The Strategy will examine how to improve spectrum management and assess research and development priorities to create new technologies and improve United States competitiveness.
The Strategy will provide a comprehensive roadmap for policy makers on all levels, so that we can successfully lead the way to a connected future.
President Trump understands that we need a forward-looking approach to managing spectrum that promotes our economic interests while still protecting our national security.

PROTECTING NATIONAL SECURITY AND EQUIPPING OUR MILITARY: President Trump will ensure that our military and Federal agencies have the necessary tools to protect our Nation. 

President Trump's Memorandum directs Federal agencies to report on their current and anticipated spectrum needs.
In the modern era, national security is dependent on technological superiority, as the military and Federal agencies rely on spectrum to carry out their missions.

The military and Federal agencies use spectrum for a range of activities, including radar detection of threats, monitoring severe weather, and management of national airspace.



CREATING JOBS AND IMPROVING THE ECONOMY: President Trump is committed to enabling emerging technologies that will better the lives of all Americans.

The President has directed a report on how new technologies will impact spectrum supply.
Spectrum fuels industries that create high wage jobs every year and new technologies.
Wireless technology enables opportunities across the country, including rural America.
The Strategy will play an important role in furthering American leadership in space and commercial space exploration.

  