
    Hillary Clinton outlines her plans to reclaim America's proper place in the world and build a world where security and opportunity go hand in hand.
A new article by Hillary Clinton in the upcoming issue of Foreign Affairs magazine titled, "Security and Opportunity for the Twenty-First Century," outlines her plans to exercise American power wisely and well, rediscover the value of statesmanship, and live up to the democratic values that are the deepest source of our strength.
"The next president will have a moment of opportunity to restore America's global standing and convince the world that America can lead once again," Hillary Clinton says in this comprehensive and forward-looking article which goes on line today. "We should aim to lead our friends and allies in building a world of security and opportunity. . . a world that will be safer, more prosperous, and more just."
Building a World of Security and Opportunity. Clinton says "The United States must be stronger, and our policies must be smarter." She laments the record of the Bush presidency: "The tragedy of the last six years is that the Bush administration has squandered the respect, trust and confidence of even our closest allies and friends." She says, "Our friends around the world do not want the United States to retreat. They want once again to be allied with the nation whose values, leadership, and strength have inspired the world for the last century...American leadership is wanting but it is still wanted."
Hillary Clinton says that "We must face up to an unprecedented array of challenges in the twenty-first century, threats from states, nonstate actors, and nature itself." To meet these challenges, "We must learn once again to draw on all aspects of American power, to inspire and attract as much as to coerce." As president, she will get out of Iraq and rebuild our military strength, and develop a much broader arsenal of tools in the fight against terrorism. She will also forge a policy of "security through statesmanship," reassuring our allies, and engaging our adversaries.
Hillary Clinton will ensure "that the United States is committed to building a world we want, rather than simply defending against a world we fear." She says, "Education is the foundation of economic opportunity and should lie at the heart of America's foreign assistance efforts." She sees climate change as a "powerful economic opportunity that can be a driver of growth, jobs, and competitive advantage in the twenty-first century."
Strength and Experience to Lead. Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to lead and understands the critical link between security and opportunity in the twenty-first century. "An America that rebuilds its strength and recovers its principles will be an America that can spread the blessings of security and opportunity around the world." Hillary Clinton is the candidate best qualified to seize this opportunity and make America more secure.
  