
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals and appoint thirteen individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Ronald Rosenfeld, of Oklahoma, to be a Director of the Board of Directors of the Federal Housing Finance Board for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring February 27, 2009. Mr. Rosenfeld currently serves as President of the Government National Mortgage Association at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. He previously served as Secretary of Commerce for the State of Oklahoma. Earlier in his career, Mr. Rosenfeld was Deputy Assistant Secretary for Corporate Finance at the Department of the Treasury. He also served as Deputy Federal Housing Commissioner at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Rosenfeld received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pennsylvania and his J.D. from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Michael Butler, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 6, 2008.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars for six-year terms expiring October 23, 2010:
Robin Cook of Florida
Charles L. Glazer of Connecticut
Peter S. Watson of California
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center for six-year terms expiring June 1, 2010:
David Wayne Anderson of Minnesota
Cynthia R. Church of Virginia
Soyna E. Medina of Texas
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission on the Abraham Lincoln Study Abroad Fellowship Program:
John K. Andrews, Jr. of Colorado
Jim Edgar of Illinois
Lynette Boggs McDonald of Nevada
Lyn Bracewell Phillips of Texas
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission on Systemic Interoperability:
Scott Wallace, of Illinois, and upon appointment designate Chairman
C. Martin Harris of Ohio
William W. Stead of Tennessee
  