
    Mitt Romney today announced the endorsements of Speaker Designate Will Weatherford (R-Wesley Chapel), Representative Chris Dorworth (R- Lake Mary) and Representative Richard Corcoran (R-Trinity).
"I am honored to have the support of Representatives Weatherford, Dorworth and Corcoran," said Mitt Romney. "They are the current and future leaders of the Republican Party in Florida. As I visit the state and reach out to voters, I look forward to working with these leaders to fix our economy and bring jobs back to Florida. They share my pro-growth agenda and with their help, we can defeat President Obama in 2012."
Announcing his support, Speaker Designate Weatherford said, "I am proud to get behind Mitt Romney in this election. He has the vision and experience that will be necessary to put our country back on the right path. President Obama's policies are creating uncertainty and killing jobs in this country. With millions of Americans unemployed, Florida voters are looking for a candidate who will be able to turn this economy around."
Background On Florida State Representatives Endorsing Mitt Romney:

State Representative Will Weatherford Was Elected To The Florida House Of Representatives In 2006. Currently the Chair of the Redistricting Committee, Rep. Weatherford also serves on the Rules & Calendar Committee and was designated to become Speaker of the House in 2012. A proponent of improving education, he is also involved with a variety of organizations in his community, including Big Brothers Big Sisters of Florida, Goodwill Industries, and several local chambers of commerce.


State Representative Chris Dorworth Was Elected To The Florida House Of Representatives In 2007. He serves on the Appropriations Committee, Redistricting Committee, and Rules & Calendar Committee. Prior to entering the House, Rep. Dorworth started his own real estate investment business and worked for Proctor & Gamble and Johnson & Johnson. He served as Seminole County Chairman of the Bush re-election campaign in 2004. Governor Jeb Bush appointed him to Seminole Community College's Board of Trustees.


State Representative Richard Corcoran Was Elected To The Florida State House Of Representatives In 2010. In the House, he serves as Vice Chair of the Health Care Appropriations Subcommittee. Previously, he advised three Speakers of the Florida House and was also Chief of Staff to Marco Rubio. Rep. Corcoran served for six years in the U.S. Naval Reserve. Rep. Corcoran is an attorney.

All three members had previously endorsed Governor Tim Pawlenty. Pawlenty has also endorsed Mitt Romney for President.
  