
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Dr. Don Wilton, the immediate-past President of the South Carolina Baptist Convention, announced his support for Governor Mitt Romney and his campaign for the presidency. Dr. Wilton's endorsement is another indication of Governor Romney's growing support among faith and values leaders in South Carolina and across the nation.
"I am proud to stand alongside Governor Romney as he pursues our nation's highest office. His values are my values – protecting the sanctity of human life, defending marriage and strengthening the family. We need someone in Washington who will stand up for traditional families and Governor Romney is that person," said Dr. Wilton. "While we may not agree on theology, Governor Romney and I agree that this election is about our country heading in the right direction. Governor Romney is the best candidate to stand for conservative values in Washington."
With today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "As conservatives, Dr. Wilton and I believe that our nation is stronger when we build stronger families. I look forward to working with him in South Carolina to ensure that Washington stands for families, life and marriage."
Background On Dr. Don Wilton:
Dr. Don Wilton Is Senior Pastor At The First Baptist Church Of Spartanburg, South Carolina, And The Immediate Past President Of The South Carolina Baptist Convention. Dr. Wilton was the 2006 South Carolina Baptist Convention President. He has served in churches in South Africa, Mississippi and Louisiana. He began his pastorate at the First Baptist Church in Spartanburg in 1993. His church currently has 6,900 members. A former faculty member at the New Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary, he currently teaches at the Billy Graham School of Evangelism and the Billy Graham Training Center at the Cove. Additionally, Dr. Wilton serves as President of the Encouraging Word Broadcast Ministry, which televises nationwide.
In addition to having authored numerous articles, he has written and published five books, including his most recent The Absolute Certainty of Life After Death. Dr. Wilton and his wife Karyn have three children.
  