
    DISCUSSION WITH THE FOSS FAMILY & BACKYARD EVENT
Seattle, Washington
Today, the President will meet with a local family at their home before hosting a discussion on women and the economy with families and women small business owners from the area. During the backyard discussion, the President will discuss the impact of the recession on women and the ways in which his Administration's policies will continue to benefit women as we work to recover from the deepest recession since the Great Depression.
Also today, the National Economic Council released a report on the impact of the recession on women and how the Administration's economic policies benefit American women. The report lays out the economic landscape facing women today and details some of the many ways the administration is committed to making sure the government is working for all Americans especially American women. The President will highlight this report at the event. The full report is available HERE.
BACKGROUND ON HOST FAMILY
Foss FamilyErik and Cynnie Foss are parents to Anna (8 years old) and Elsa (5 years old) and have been married for 14 years. Erik was born and raised in Seattle and is a general contractor, specializing in home remodels. Cynnie was born and raised in Bellevue and is the Volunteer Services Manager at the University of Washington Medical Center. Both of their children attend View Ridge Elementary School.
BACKGROUND ON WOMEN SMALL BUSINESS OWNERS
Jody Hall, Owner, Cupcake RoyaleJody Hall is the owner of Cupcake Royale, which opened in 2003 and has grown to five locations throughout Seattle. Jody self-financed her first café/bakery and based on its success was able to open subsequent locations. With the help of a SBA 504 loan, Jody was able to purchase the space for her fourth location. Her fifth location recently opened last month. Jody currently employs 85 people – 12 of whom were hired within the past two months – across the five Cupcake Royale locations.
Christina Lomasney, Physicist, President and CEO (co-founder), ModumetalChristina Lomasney is the President of Modumetal, a Seattle-based nanostructured metals manufacturer that was started in 2007 by Christina and her co-founder John Whitaker. Modumetal is an outgrowth of Christina's success with a previous business venture, Isotron that started in 2001 to develop technologies for environmental remediation. Modumetal has continued to grow during even the most difficult of economic times. A clear vision, a committed group of stakeholders and a new manufacturing technology that the Modumetal team believes is revolutionary, have provided the critical momentum. Last year, Modumetal received a U.S. Department of Energy contract, made possible by the Recovery Act, which provided the company with additional resources to conduct important product development efforts. Modumetal currently employs 25 people and is actively hiring due to a recently announced partnership with one of the nation's largest steel manufacturers to develop and operate a manufacturing line over the next year. Christina hopes to increase the size of her workforce by 15 percent (approx. four new positions) in the coming months and is optimistic about Modumetal's future economic growth and expansion.
ELECTED OFFICIALS EXPECTED TO ATTEND
Governor Chris GregoireSenator Patty MurrayRepresentative Jim McDermottSeattle Mayor Mike McGinn
  