
    Ahead of Upcoming Visits, 'All of America' Will Begin Airing in Iowa and New Hampshire Tomorrow
Klobuchar: "If you feel stuck in the middle of the extremes in our politics and you are tired of the noise and the nonsense, you've got a home with me."
MINNEAPOLIS, MN – Today, the Amy for America campaign announced its first TV ad buy of the primary. 'All of America,' which begins airing on broadcast and cable in Iowa and New Hampshire this week, highlights Amy Klobuchar's unifying message and shows why she's the strongest candidate to take on Donald Trump.
"As Amy said on the debate stage, there is far more that unites us than divides us and she's running to be president for all of America," said Amy For America campaign manager Justin Buoen. "She knows how to bring people together, she knows how to get things done, and she knows how to win. Our new ad builds on the case Amy's making to voters in Iowa and New Hampshire and underscores exactly why she's the best candidate to not just defeat Donald Trump, but deliver victories up and down the ballot."
The ad will begin airing ahead of Klobuchar's 20th visit to Iowa -- where she will travel to her 50th Iowa county -- and her 14th trip to New Hampshire. Following a strong September debate performance, Senator Klobuchar is continuing to build on her momentum in early states, having earned "the support of more current and former legislators from Iowa than any other presidential candidate."
'All of America' can be viewed here:

'All of America' Transcript:
KLOBUCHAR: If you feel stuck in the middle of the extremes in our politics and you are tired of the noise and the nonsense, you've got a home with me.
I am someone that tells the truth. I don't make promises that I can't keep. I have people's back. And I believe that to win, you bring people with you and that is how you govern, as well.
Because I don't want to be the president for half of America. I want to be the president for all of America.
I'm Amy Klobuchar, and I approve this message.
  