
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 25
In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced his intention to reappoint Senators Edward M. Kennedy and Orrin G. Hatch and U.S. Circuit Court Judge Morris (Buzz) Arnold as members of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation.
October 26
The President announced his intention to nominate James D. (J.D.) Bindenagel for rank of Ambassador during his tenure as Special Envoy for Holocaust Issues.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas A. Fry III to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management at the Department of the Interior.
The White House announced that the President will make state visits to Greece on November 13-15 and Turkey on November 15-17, before attending the summit of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in Istanbul, Turkey, on November 17-19. Following the summit, he will visit Florence, Italy, November 20-21 and Bulgaria, November 21-23.
October 27
In the morning, the President met in the Oval Office with President Romano Prodi of Italy, in his capacity as President of the European Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Bernard J. Hansen as Commissioner of the U.S. Section of the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission.
October 28
In the morning, the President met with President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria in the Oval Office, and in the afternoon, they met again in the Cabinet Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bobby L. Roberts to be a member of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science.
The President announced his intention to nominate Martin S. Indyk to be Ambassador to Israel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward S. Walker, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary for Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State.
October 29
In the morning, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Atlanta, GA, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate N. Cinnamon Dornsife to be the U.S. Executive Director to the Asian Development Bank with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Bruce A. Morrison to be Chairman and member of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Timothy O'Neill to be a member of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony S. Harrington to be Ambassador to the Federative Republic of Brazil.
  