
    SANTA FE, NM-- Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today inaugurated the New Mexico chapter of Women for Richardson at an event at the Nedra Matteucci Galleries in Santa Fe.
"Women are the majority in this country, not just a "special interest" as they so often are called by the media," New Mexico Governor Richardson said. "My campaign seeks to address the concerns of that majority."
Richardson touted his accomplishments as governor to demonstrate why he is the best Presidential candidate for women.
"In my administration, we have dramatically increased the penalties for domestic violence and nearly tripled funding for shelters to provide women and children with the protection they need," Richardson said. "We have raised our teachers' salaries, expanded the number of four-year-olds enrolled in our pre‑kindergarten program, and funded after‑school enrichment programs.
"I always have appointed women to critical positions, not out of a sense of duty or to fill a quota, but because they were the most qualified. I presently have twelve outstanding and extremely qualified female cabinet secretaries, and I am proud to have worked closely for the past five years with Lieutenant Governor Diane Denish, the first female Lieutenant Governor in New Mexico's history."
Richardson also discussed the most pressing issues of the day and how he will get our country back on track.
"First, we know that the number one concern of women is ending the war, and I am the only candidate who has promised to remove all of our troops from Iraq quickly and safely," Richardson said. "I will leave behind no residual troops in Iraq.
"Second, working women and men should not have to choose between their jobs and their families in a time of need. When I was in Congress, I voted for the Family and Medical Leave Act-- it was a great step forward. This is not enough: we need to do more. We should expand this law by including paid family leave for births and adoptions and caregiving for elderly parents.
"Finally, working women are not my only concern. The largest group of elderly Americans living in poverty is retired women on Social Security. Many of those women have low benefits because they temporarily left the workforce to care for children or elderly parents. Our retirement system should recognize this valuable work by awarding Social Security credit at least at the level of the minimum wage."
Distinguished guests at the event included Women for Richardson National Co-Chairpersons Dr. Martha Burk and New Mexico Lieutenant Governor Diane Denish and New Mexico First Lady Barbara Richardson. Women for Richardson, launched nationally on July 16th in Concord, New Hampshire, is a group of accomplished women who will advise Governor Richardson's campaign on women's issues and outreach efforts.
  