
    President George W. Bush today announced the recipients of the nation's highest honor for science and technology, naming the laureates to receive the 2002 National Medal of Science and National Medal of Technology. The honorees will receive the medals at a White House ceremony on November 6, 2003.
The National Medal of Science honors individuals in a variety of fields for pioneering scientific research that has led to a better understanding of the world around us, as well as to the innovations and technologies that give the United States its global economic edge. The National Science Foundation administers the award, established by Congress in 1959. When the President confers the awards, 409 distinguished scientists and engineers will have received the medal. For more information about the National Medal of Science visit www.nsf.gov/nsb/awards/nms/medal.htm.
The National Medal of Technology recognizes men and women who embody the spirit of American innovation and have advanced the nation's global competitiveness. Their groundbreaking contributions commercialize technologies, create jobs, improve productivity and stimulate the nation's growth and development. This award, established by Congress in 1980, is administered by the Department of Commerce. As the President presents this year's awards, 146 recipients will have been honored with the medal. For more information about the National Medal of Technology visit www.technology.gov/medal.
The 2002 National Medal of Science Laureates:
Biological Sciences James E. Darnell, Jr., Rockefeller University, New York, N.Y. Evelyn M. Witkin, Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J.
Chemistry John I. Brauman, Stanford University, Palo Alto, Calif.
Engineering Leo L. Beranek, BBN Technologies, Cambridge, Mass.
Mathematics James G. Glimm, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, N.Y.
Physical Sciences Richard L. Garwin, Council on Foreign Relations, New York, N.Y. W. Jason Morgan, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. Edward Witten, Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, N.J.
The 2002 National Medal of Technology Laureates:
Calvin H. Carter, Jr., Cree Inc., Durham, N.C. Haren S. Gandhi, Ford Motor Company, Dearborn, Mich. Carver A. Mead, California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, Calif. Team of: John J. Mooney and Carl D. Keith, Engelhard Corporation, Iselin, N.J. Team of: Nicholas Holonyak, Jr., University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana-Champaign, Ill., M. George Craford, LumiLeds Lighting, San Jose, Calif., and Russell D. Dupuis, Georgia Institute of Technology at Atlanta, Ga. DuPont, Wilmington, Del.
  