
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Washington Post's Chris Cillizza: "WINNERS: Mitt Romney: ... as the debate wore on, Romney scored points with his passionate defense of his record as governor -- most notably on health care. Romney is most natural when speaking about his record of accomplishments; from Bain Capital to the Olympics to Massachusetts, he has put together an impressive resume of results. Romney spent much of the latter half of the debate reminding viewers of that." (Chris Cillizza, "McCain Shines At Latest GOP Debate," The Washington Post's "The Fix" Blog, http://blog.washingtonpost.com/thefix/, Posted 10/22/07)
Frank Luntz: "Mitt Romney took a sledgehammer to Senator Clinton." (Fox News' Post-Debate Coverage, 10/21/07)
Politico's Mike Allen: "Money Moment" When Governor Romney Slams Clinton. "Politico's Jonathan Martin has another money moment: 'When Romney was asked if Clinton was "fit to be commander in chief," the audience preempted the candidate, bellowing a collective "no!" The former governor eventually agreed after spending some time hammering her for her lack of executive experience.'" (Mike Allen, "Cowboy Up!," The Politico, 10/22/07)
The Weekly Standard's Richelieu: "Romney much improved and on a far stronger Mr. Fixit message..." (Richelieu, " Clinton And The Florida Debate," The Weekly Standard, http://www.weeklystandard.com/weblogs/CampaignStandard/, Posted 10/22/07)
Human Events' Jennifer Rubin: Governor Romney "made his pitch as a well rounded conservative with strong answers on marriage and the ill fated Clinton peace dividend. More importantly, he seemed eager to reintroduce himself as the successful businessman and rescuer of the Olympics, a resume he has to date not emphasized but which is unique and impressive." (Jennifer Rubin, "Florida Debate Is Best So Far," Human Events, 10/22/07)
The New York Times' Michael Cooper and Marc Santora: "Mrs. Clinton was the focus of much of the debate, as she has been a focus of Republican talking points for weeks, as Republicans have used her to rally the party faithful. Mr. Romney may have been the toughest on her last night. 'I don't want her as commander in chief,' he said. 'She hasn't run a corner store. She hasn't run a state. She hasn't run a city. She has never run anything.'" (Michael Cooper and Marc Santora, "At Debate, G.O.P. Race Becomes More Personal," The New York Times, 10/22/07)
Palm Beach Post's George Bennett And Dara Kam: Governor Romney "Blasted Clinton's Lack Of Executive Experience." "Romney, touting his own experience as a businessman and head of the 2002 Winter Olympics as well as a governor, blasted Clinton's lack of executive experience. 'She hasn't run a corner store. She hasn't run a state. She hasn't run a city. She has never run anything. And the idea that she could learn to be president, you know, as an internship just doesn't make any sense,' Romney said." (George Bennett And Dara Kam, "GOP Hopefuls Race To Right At Debate," Palm Beach Post, 10/22/07)
Captain's Quarters' Ed Morrissey: "Romney scored points for himself when he noted that Hillary has never run anything in her life, while he has run a state, a successful business, and an Olympics that had almost collapsed from the weight of its own corruption." (Ed Morrissey, "A Good Night For Republicans," Captain's Quarter's Blog, http://www.captainsquartersblog.com/, Posted 10/22/07)
Human Events' Ross Kaminsky: "The questioning turned to Fox News' most recent poll in which all of the candidates trail Hillary Clinton. Mitt Romney's answer, questioning Senator Clinton's (lack of) experience in the private sector, got one of his best audience responses." (Ross Kaminsky, "Republican Debate Recap," Human Events, 10/22/07)
Time Magazine's Mark Halperin: "[Romney] got to talk about his opposition to gay marriage, a subject on which he consistently shows passion." (Mark Halperin, "The Republican Candidates," Time's "The Page" Blog, 10/22/07)
ABC News' David Chalian: "Romney gave a passionate and strong defense of his plan to require every Massachusetts resident to have health insurance." (David Chalian, et. al., "Heated Republican Debate Focuses On The Battle For The True Conservative," ABC News, http://blogs.abcnews.com/politicalradar/, Posted 10/22/07)
  