
    I am pleased to sign into law H.R. 6665, the "Act to Prevent Pollution from Ships," which addresses a number of environmental issues related to intentional and accidental pollution from tankers carrying oil and chemicals. This act provides the legislation needed to implement the Protocol of 1978 Relating to the International Convention for the Prevention of Pollution from Ships of 1973.
Since my message on oil pollution to the Congress in March of 1977—following a series of tanker casualties during the winter of 1976-77 in and near the coastal waters of the United States—this administration has emphasized the need for international cooperation as a primary means of reducing the risks of tanker operation.
At the request of the United States, the International Conference on Tanker Safety and Pollution Prevention was held in London in 1978. At this conference, the United States presented a detailed set of proposals related to new design, construction, and equipment standards, as well as new procedures for vessel inspection and certification. After extensive technical meetings and consultations, the United States was successful in obtaining two protocols, one of which, the 1978 Marine Pollution Protocol, is the subject of the legislation being signed today.
The Port and Tanker Safety Act was signed into law on October 17, 1978. It was the first major step in implementing the results of the Tanker Safety Conference. The present act completes the legislative implementation of the 1978 Marine Pollution Protocol. It will become effective upon the date of enactment or on the date the Protocol becomes effective for the United States, whichever is later. This ensures that U.S.-flag shipping will not be placed in an uncompetitive position visa-vis foreign shipping prior to the entry into force of the Protocol and will enable the Secretary of Transportation to prepare the necessary regulations prior to the entry into force of the Protocol.
The United States has been and will continue to be a leader in urging the adoption of international maritime safety and environmental standards. My signing this legislation today is a mark of our determination to protect the marine environment from pollution.
  