
    The President today announced his intention to appoint James H. Cavanaugh and Steve M. Jeong to be members of the President's Export Council. They will succeed Robert B. Washington, Jr., and Stephen P. Yokich.
Dr. Cavanaugh recently served as Special Consultant to the President in Presidential Personnel. Presently he is president of Allergan International, a unit of the Allergan Pharmaceutical Co. in Irvine, Calif. He was senior vice president for science and planning, having joined the company in 1977. In 1971 he joined the White House staff as Staff Assistant to the President for Health Affairs and was named Associate Director of the Domestic Council Staff in 1973. He later became Deputy Director of the Domestic Council Staff, and in 1976, was named Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and served as Deputy Chief of the White House staff. Prior to his White House service, Dr. Cavanaugh was Deputy Assistant Secretary of Health and Scientific Affairs, Department of Health, Education and Welfare. He was a member of the faculty of the Graduate College at the University of Iowa. He graduated from Fairleigh Dickinson University (B.S., 1959) and the University of Iowa (M.A., 1961; Ph. D., 1964). He is married, has two children, and resides in Newport Beach, Calif. He is 43 years old.
Mr. Jeong is a real estate broker and tax consultant and is owner of Steve M. Jeong Realty in San Francisco, Calif. He has been very active in civic and community affairs of the San Francisco Chinese community. He is the former president of the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association, the official representative organization of Chinese in the United States; former president of the Lung Kong Association; former president and member of the board of directors of the Sue Hing Benevolent Association; and serves on the boards of directors of the Chinese Hospital and the Chinese Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Jeong has served on the board of directors of the Chinatown-North Beach English Language Center (an agency of the Economic Opportunity Council of San Francisco). In 1971 he obtained a grant from the Department of Commerce to train non-English-speaking Chinese immigrants in a saleable skill, enabling them to be self-supporting. Mr. Jeong was born in Canton, China, on June 21, 1919. He has degrees in accounting from Kong Tai College in Hong Kong and Golden Gate University in San Francisco. He is married, has two grown children, and resides in San Francisco.
  