
    President Carter today announced selection of 17 prominent business, labor, and public figures to serve as members of the anti-inflation program's Pay Advisory Committee. They will serve with John Thomas Dunlop, a Harvard economics professor and former Secretary of Labor, who has accepted the Chairmanship of the Committee.
The President said on September 28 that he would name a committee to broaden public participation in the development and administration of the voluntary pay standard for the second year of the anti-inflation program. It was enlarged from 15 to 18 to provide for wider participation.
The Pay Advisory Committee will advise the Council on Wage and Price Stability on developing policies that encourage anti-inflationary pay behavior by employers and labor, in order to decelerate the rate of inflation and provide for fair and equitable distribution of the burden of restraint.
The Committee will recommend any modifications to the pay standard it considers necessary and to pay exception and noncompliance decisions of the Council. It will also recommend new or revised interpretations of the pay standard.
Members of the Committee were chosen after wide consultation with representatives of labor, business, and the general public.
The Committee will hold its first meeting at 10 a.m., Wednesday, October 17, in Room 2008 of the New Executive Office Building.
Following are names of the Committee members and the sectors which they represent: Public members
JOHN T. DUNLOP—Chairman. Mr. Dunlop is currently Lamont University professor at Harvard Business School and was Secretary of Labor from March 1975 to February 1976;
PHYLLIS WALLACE, professor of industrial relations at the Sloan School of Management of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology;
ROBBEN W. FLEMING, president of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and former president of the University of Michigan; he has accepted subject to approval of his board;
ARVIN ANDERSON, chairman, Office of Collective Bargaining, City of New York;
LLOYD ULMAN, professor of economics, Institute of Industrial Relations, University of California, Berkeley;
ROBERT NATHAN, consulting economist and chief executive officer of Robert R. Nathan Associates, an economic consulting firm.
Labor members
LANE KIRKLAND, secretary-treasurer of the AFL-CIO;
WILLIAM WYNN, president, United Food and Commercial Workers;
JOHN LYONS, president, International Association of Bridge and Structural Iron Workers;
LLOYD McBRIDE, president, United Steelworkers of America;
FRANK FITZSIMMONS, president, International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Chauffeurs, Warehousemen and Helpers of America;
DOUGLAS FRASER, president, United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers Union.
Business members
MR. HEATH LARRY, president of the National Association of Manufacturers;
JESSE HILL, president and chief executive officer of Atlanta Life Insurance Co.;
CHARLES R. McDONALD, chairman, Council of Smaller Enterprises, and president, McDonald Equipment Co. of Cleveland, Ohio;
JOHN T. CONNER, chairman of the board, Allied Chemical Corp.;
NORMA PACE, senior vice president, American Paper Institute;
PHILIP M. HAWLEY, president and chief executive officer of Carter Hawley Hale Stores.
Alternates will be named later for business and labor representatives.
  