
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 4
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Beltsville, MD, to observe U.S. Secret Service tactical expertise and training exercises at the James J. Rowley Training Center. Later, they returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President traveled to Arlington, VA. Later, he was joined by Hillary Clinton, and they traveled to Camp David, MD.
October 6
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC. In the evening, the President hosted a dinner for President Ezer Weizman of Israel in the Blue Room at the White House.
The President announced his intention to nominate James C. Hormel to be Ambassador to Luxembourg.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gerald S. McGowan to be Ambassador to Portugal.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lyndon L. Olson, Jr., to be Ambassador to Sweden.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth R. Wykle to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration at the Department of Transportation.
October 7
In the morning, the President attended a meeting with Northern Ireland Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble in National Security Adviser Samuel R. Berger's office at the White House.
In the afternoon, the President met with congressional Democrats to discuss fast-track trade legislation. In the evening, he met with representatives of State and local government and business and community leaders from the Midwest.
The President announced his intention to nominate Christopher Ashby to be Ambassador to Uruguay.
The President announced his intention to nominate James A. Larocco to be Ambassador to Kuwait.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mark Erwin to be a member of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate James H. Bailey to serve as Deputy Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The President announced the nomination of Bill Richardson and A. Peter Burleigh to be U.S. Representatives and Richard Sklar, Victor Marrero, and Nancy E. Soderberg to be U.S. Alternate Representatives to the 52d General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President announced the nomination of Nancy E. Soderberg to be Alternate U.S. Representative for Special Political Affairs at the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
October 8
In the morning, the President traveled to Newark, NJ. In the afternoon, he traveled to West Orange and Florham Park, NJ. Later in the afternoon, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA, arriving in the evening.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee reception at CoreStates Arena. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced the administration's intention to appoint Rev. Jesse Jackson to be Special Envoy for the President and the Secretary of State for the promotion of democracy in Africa.
October 9
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom concerning the Prime Minister's recent visit to Russia and the President's October 7 meeting with Northern Ireland Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble.
Later, the President had a telephone conversation with retiring University of North Carolina men's basketball coach Dean Smith to commend him on his long and successful career.
The President announced his intention to nominate David B. Hermelin to be Ambassador to Norway.
The President announced the nomination of Betty Eileen King to be an Alternate U.S. Representative to the 52d General Assembly of the United Nations. Ms. King has also been nominated to be U.S. Representative on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kevin Gover to be Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs at the Department of the Interior.
October 10
The President announced the nomination of Mary Mel French to be Chief of Protocol at the State Department.
The President announced the nomination of Richard W. Fisher to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative (Washington), with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced the nomination of Robert T. Grey, Jr., to be U.S. Representative to the Conference on Disarmament.
The President announced the nomination of Joy Harjo to be a member of the National Council on the Arts.
The President announced the nomination of Ida L. Castro to serve as the Director of the Women's Bureau at the Department of Labor.
The President announced the nomination of Carl Spielvogel as a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for the International Broadcasting Bureau.
The President announced the nomination of Robert S. Warshaw to serve as Associate Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy for the Bureau of State and Local Affairs.
The President announced the nomination of Thomas H. Fox to be Assistant Administrator for Policy and Program Coordination at the Agency for International Development.
The President announced the nomination of Donald C. Lubick to be Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced the nomination of Fred P. Hochberg to serve as Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
The President announced his intention to appoint Arthur M. Hamilton and Sally Ann Jochum as members of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation.
The President announced his intention to designate David J. Barram, in his capacity as Administrator of the General Services Administration, Andrew M. Cuomo, in his capacity as Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and Rodney E. Slater, in his capacity as Secretary of Transportation, to serve as members on the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
The White House announced that the President named Amy Weiss Tobe as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Press Secretary for Operations, effective October 27.
  