
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate thirteen individuals and appoint two individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Mary Kramer, of Iowa, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Barbados and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to St. Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Antigua and Barbuda, the Commonwealth of Dominica, Grenada and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Ms. Kramer currently serves as Iowa State Senator and President of the Iowa State Senate. Previously she served as Vice President of Wellmark Blue Cross and Blue Shield. Prior to this position, Ms. Kramer served as Corporate Personnel Director for Younkers, Inc. She was previously appointed by the President to serve as Chairman of the Commission on Presidential Scholars. Ms. Kramer earned her bachelor's degree and her master's degree from the University of Iowa.
The President intends to appoint Charles A. Calhoun, of Mississippi, to be Commissioner of the Pecos River Commission (New Mexico and Texas).
The President intends to appoint Maria Pilar Aristigueta, of Delaware, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 19, 2009.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science:
The President intends to nominate Jose Antonio Aponte, of Colorado, (Librarian and Information Specialist) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2007.
The President intends to nominate Sandra Frances Ashworth, of Idaho, (Elderly Expert) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2004.
The President intends to nominate Edward Louis Bertorelli, of Massachusetts, (Public) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2005.
The President intends to nominate Carol L. Diehl, of Wisconsin, (Public) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2005.
The President intends to nominate Allison Druin, of Maryland, (Librarian and Information Specialist) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2006.
The President intends to nominate Beth Fitzsimmons, of Michigan, (Librarian and Information Specialist) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2006 and upon confirmation, designate Chairman.
The President intends to nominate Patricia M. Hines, of South Carolina, (Public) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2005.
The President intends to nominate Colleen Ellen Huebner, of Washington, (Public) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2007.
The President intends to nominate Stephen M. Kennedy, of New Hampshire, (Public) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2007.
The President intends to nominate Herman Lavon Totten, of Texas, (Librarian and Information Specialist) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2008.
The President intends to nominate Bridget L. Lamont, of Illinois, (Librarian) for the remainder of a five-year term expiring July 19, 2008.
The President intends to nominate Mary H. Perdue, of Maryland, (Public) for the remainder a five-year term expiring July 19, 2008.
  