
    (COLUMBIA, SC) – The South Carolina for Hillary Campaign announced the statewide leadership committee for the Women for Hillary organization today and the beginning of a month-long grassroots drive for the organization across the state. The 25-member leadership committee includes a diverse group of women from across the state. The leadership committee will be launching a grassroots organizational drive across the state over the month of October, including signing women up for the campaign, organizing the Women for Hillary team locally and organizing house parties and other events.
The Leadership Committee for South Carolina Women for Hillary includes:

Grand Strand Area Hotel and Hospitality Entrepreneur Dorothy Anderson of Myrtle Beach
Richland County Councilwoman Joyce Dickerson of Columbia
President of Wordsmith Inc. Public Strategies Mary Eaddy of Myrtle Beach
Greenville County Democratic Party Treasurer Ann Funderburk of Greenville
State Representative Cathy Harvin of Summerton
Retired Lt. General Claudia Kennedy of Hilton Head
Attorney Zoe Nettles of Columbia
Democrat Activist Flo Rosse of Hilton Head
Richland County Councilwoman Bernice Scott of Hopkins
State Senator Linda Short of Chester
Executive Vice President of Public Affairs and Chief of Staff for Nickelodeon Marva Smalls of Florence
Greenville City Councilwoman Diane Smock of Greenville
Community Activist Audrey Snead of Columbia
Attorney/ First Lady of Florence Marguerite Willis of Florence
Anderson County Councilwoman Gracie Floyd of Anderson
Greenville County Councilwoman Lottie Gibson of Greenville
Charleston Attorney and Community Activist Kay Koonce of Charleston
Community Faith Leader Willie Mae Jackson of Columbia
Aiken City Councilwoman Lessie Price of Aiken
President of Beta Beta Zeta Amicae group of Columbia S.C. Bessie Murray of Columbia
Health Disparities Activist Sheryl Mack of Charleston
Horry County Democratic Women's Club President Sarah McCollum of Myrtle Beach
National Beauty Culturist League President Dr. Katie Catalon of Charleston
Columbia College Young Democrats President Ophelia Doe of Hampton and Columbia
Former Horry County Democratic Party Chairman and Former City Council Member Mary Jeffcoat of Myrtle Beach

The South Carolina Women for Hillary organization has already been an active grassroots movement in the state, previously holding kickoff and organizational meetings in the Upstate, the Grand Strand, the Pee Dee, the Lowcountry and for the Rock Hill area. The group also participated in the Women's Equality Day Forum in Columbia with day-time TV star and best-selling author Victoria Rowell. The Women for Hillary organization also participated with events featuring Rowell in Spartanburg, Anderson and Aiken.
South Carolina Women for Hillary is part of the national Women for Hillary organization growing across the country. Hillary's four state campaign co-chairs include South Carolina's only woman senator, Linda Short, and the first woman elected to an at-large seat on the Aiken City Council, former South Carolina Municipal Association President Lessie Price. Both serve on the Women for Hillary Leadership Committee.
  