
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Much of our history as a nation has been shaped by the ports of our sea coasts and inland waterways. Our early harbors fostered industry and trade and helped build many of America's great cities.
Today, our ports are an important resource in the Nation's economy. In 1980, the port industry handled almost two billion short tons of waterborne commerce in foreign and domestic trade. This commerce contributed over $35 billion to the gross national product and generated an additional $1.5 billion in services sold to users.
Recognizing their vital importance to America's economic health, State and local port authorities and private industry have continued to invest financial resources to improve port facilities to meet ever-increasing needs.
The growing demand for coal and other energy sources to fuel the economic growth of the United States and the rest of the industrialized world has presented the ports of this Nation with a unique challenge.
Many port authorities have begun and others have plans for the construction or expansion of harbor facilities. Some 70 million tons of annual capacity now under construction will result in a 50 percent increase over current capacity. By 1985 total investment in new or expanded facilities is expected to meet the projected demand of our industrial trading partners and to decrease our dependence on foreign oil.
In recognition of the importance of our ports to the Nation's economy, the Congress has, by Senate Joint Resolution 103, designated the week beginning October 4, 1981, as National Port Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the seven calendar days beginning October 4, 1981, as National Port Week. I invite the Governors of the several States, the chief officials of local governments, and the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this second day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.

RONALD REAGAN
  