
    "The choice facing seniors couldn't be more clear when it comes to preserving Medicare. If he's re-elected, President Obama's $716 billion in Medicare cuts ensures today's seniors will be hit with higher costs, fewer benefits, and reduced access to care. Mitt Romney will reverse the President's disastrous Medicare cuts and preserve and strengthen the program for future retirees." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama Is Responsible For Over $700 Billion In Medicare Cuts — Which Will Jeopardize Benefits And Increase Costs For Seniors:
According To The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare Cuts $716 Billion From Medicare. (Congressional Budget Office, Letter To Speaker John Boehner, 7/24/12)


    President Obama's Senior Campaign Aide Bragged That President Obama "Achieved" $700 Billion In "Cuts In Medicare." CUTTER: "Well, you know ask the wealthy to pay a little bit more. Cut waste from the government. Reform Medicare. More than $300 billion in savings from Medicare. On top of the savings we've already achieved. You know I heard Mitt Romney deride the $700 billion cuts in Medicare that the president achieved through health care reform." (CBS's "Face The Nation," 8/12/12)
  

Obamacare's Cuts Will Cause Enrollment In Medicare Advantage To "Plummet By About 50 Percent" And Leave Seniors With "Higher Out-Of-Pocket Costs." "In addition to flagging provider cuts as potentially unsustainable, the report [HHS] projected that reductions in payments to private Medicare Advantage plans would trigger an exodus from the popular alternative. Enrollment would plummet by about 50 percent. Seniors leaving the private plans would still have health insurance under traditional Medicare, but many might face higher out-of-pocket costs." (Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, "Report Says Health Care Will Cover More, Cost More," The Associated Press, 4/23/10)


    The Medicare Trustees Project These Cuts Will Drive 4 Million Seniors Out Of Medicare Advantage Plans By 2018. (Medicare Trustees Report, 4/23/12)
  

52 Percent Of Doctors Say Obamacare Will Compel Them To Close Or Significantly Restrict Their Practices To Medicare Patients. (Merritt Hawkins, "Health Reform and the Decline of Physician Private Practice," The Physicians Foundation, October 2010)
The Medicare Actuary Has Estimated 15% Of "Hospitals, Skilled Nursing Facilities, And Home Health Agencies" Will Be In The Red Before The Decade Is Over. "In the Office of the Actuary's April 22, 2010 memorandum on the estimated financial effects of the Affordable Care Act, we noted that by 2019 the update reductions would result in negative total facility margins for about 15 percent of hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and home health agencies. This estimated percentage would continue to increase, reaching roughly 25 percent in 2030 and 40 percent by 2050. In practice, providers could not sustain continuing negative margins and, absent legislative changes, would have to withdraw from providing services to Medicare beneficiaries, merge with other provider groups, or shift substantial portions of Medicare costs to their non-Medicare, non-Medicaid payers." ("Projected Expenditures Under An Illustrative Scenario With Alternative Payment Updates To Medicare Providers," Center For Medicare & Medicaid Services, 5/13/11)
As President, Mitt Romney Will Reverse President Obama's Medicare Cuts And Preserve And Strengthen The Program For Future Retirees:
Mitt Romney Has Pledged To Reverse President Obama's Disastrous Medicare Cuts. "Romney said Wednesday that, if elected, he would seek to reverse the Medicare cuts along with repealing the rest of the health reform law." (Noam N. Levey, "The Fight Over Medicare: Answers To 5 Key Questions," Los Angeles Times, 8/17/12)


    Mitt Romney, On President Obama's Medicare Cuts: "Will Both Hurt Today's Seniors, And Depress Innovation — And Jobs — In Medicine." ROMNEY: "His policies have not helped create jobs, they have depressed them. And this I can tell you about where President Obama would take America: ... His $716 billion cut to Medicare to finance Obamacare will both hurt today's seniors, and depress innovation — and jobs — in medicine." (Mitt Romney, Remarks, Tampa, FL, 8/30/12)
  

Mitt Romney's Plan To Preserve And Strengthen Medicare Includes Honoring Commitments To Current Seniors And Offering Future Retirees More Choice — Including Traditional Medicare. "Mitt's plan honors commitments to current seniors while giving the next generation an improved program that offers the freedom to choose what their coverage under Medicare should look like. Instead of paying providers directly for medical services, the government's role will be to help future seniors pay for an insurance option that provides coverage at least as good as today's Medicare, and to offer traditional Medicare as one of the insurance options that seniors can choose." (Romney For President Website, 10/2/12)
  