
    The reporters agree...armed with his consistently conservative record and problem solving vision for the future, Senator Thompson passes the test by standing out from the crowd and offering real solutions for real problems.
Passed the Test

"Fred Thompson is passing his first big test."("Spotlight on Thompson in GOP debate," Political Intelligence, Boston Globe, 10/9/07).
"If this was a test, artificial as it may have been, Thompson passed it. He demonstrated that his campaign has density. He did not fall for any of the traps that the moderators laid for him." ("The Debate: Thompson Passes A Test; Giuliani and Romney Spar," The Atlantic, 10/9/07).
"In the rest of the debate, Thompson showed that he was comfortable and prepared, even for the silly attacks from other candidates." ("Fred Wins, Chris Loses," Captain's Quarters Blog, 10/9/07).
"Thompson's Prep Work is paying off. He clearly prepared for the debate and has enough facts and statistics to back up his answers." ("Thompson's Prep Work," The Atlantic, 10/9/07).
Stood Out From the Crowd

"He seemed to demonstrate all that homework paid off, using a lot of facts and figures when appropriate, able to handle questions on a range of subjects. His team feels more than satisfied. His competitors now, knowing Thompson is in second place, will continue to try to chip away at his ability to be a strong campaigner. There's much more to watch on this." (NBC Nightly News, 10/9/07).
"The candidate both are trying to outflank with the party's conservative base, Fred Thompson, likely quieted critics of his early campaign stumbles with a steady, sure-footed performance in his first presidential debate.....fluttered the hearts of Republicans who've been longing for a Southern conservative to rally behind." ("Rudy, Romney and Thompson spar in debate," Newsday, 10/9/07).
" And yet, Fred Thompson's plain spokeness on broad themes-- smaller government state's rights-- do seem to be resonating with voters. In Iowa, home to the nation's first caucus, he has moved into second place and more than half who support other republicans say they might switch to Fred Thompson if they knew him better." (CBS Evening News, 10/9/07).
"Thompson's performance was measured and pretty strong...he proved that not only he belongs but he is a force that is not going away." ("The Republican Debate in Dearborn: Reaction," Christian Broadcasting Network, 10/9/07).
"And the Winner Is.. ...Fred Thompson." "Romney could have had a good line with that Law & Order joke. But Thompson proved he's not just some guy with a script. Romney looked like he is one." "Best Line, Hands Down, Fred Thompson's "and to think I thought I was going to be the best actor on the stage." (The Corner, National Review, 10/9/07).

Offered Real Solutions for Real Problems

"Take Social Security's long-term solvency, an issue on which moderator Maria Bartiromo said Thompson was one of the few candidates offering specific solutions. Thompson used the question to return to his larger theme for the debate -- things are OK now but we are walking a dangerous line for our future. "We are eating our seed corn, we are spending their money," Thompson said. "We're better than that." ("Thompson the Tone Setter", The Fix, Washington Post, 10/9/07).

"Fred Thompson has held his own and gave the best answer on war powers question." (The Corner, National Review, 10/9/07).
"Thompson: for eclipsing (artificial) low expectations; for holding his own. For giving specifics about how he'd solve the long term solvency problems of Medicare and Social Security. He seemed to give the best answer in re: unions." ("The Debate: Thompson Passes A Test; Giuliani and Romney Spar," The Atlantic, 10/9/07).
  