
    Democratic leaders from battleground states and red states explain why Edwards' strength at the top of the ticket will motivate swing voters, memo shows that Edwards is the Democrat with the best chance of defeating the Republican candidate in the 2008 general election
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – As part of a new "True Blue Majority" campaign launching this week, Democratic leaders from red states and battleground states across the nation will be holding events throughout the next week to highlight their support for John Edwards for president. These leaders will discuss why Edwards is the only candidate with the bold ideas for change and strong leadership needed to campaign in all 50 states and lead Democrats to victory in the 2008 general election. The events will also highlight why these leaders believe that having Edwards at the top of the ticket will motivate swing voters to ensure that Democrats maintain and expand Democratic majorities in Congress and lead Democrats to victory in races at the state and local level.
"We need a leader who can compete anywhere in America, and win," said former Georgia Governor Roy Barnes. "Some pundits say that a Democrat can't win in some places in the South, Midwest or West. But they're wrong. The right Democratic presidential nominee – one who shares our values, understands our issues and offers real and bold solutions – can win these states. That candidate is John Edwards."
"It is so important that we nominate a candidate who will motivate swing voters in battleground states, like Wisconsin, to support the Democratic Party in 2008," said Dawn Marie Sass, Wisconsin State Treasurer. "Poll after poll in the battleground states shows Edwards to be the strongest Democratic challenger in a general election match-up with the leading Republicans. Edwards' strength at the top of the ticket will help Democrats not only to take back the White House, but also to maintain and expand our majorities in Congress and state legislatures. And his coattails will help lead Democrats to victory in hundreds of other down-ballot races at the state and local level as well."
In a memo released Thursday, Edwards campaign pollster Harrison Hickman of Global Strategy Group analyzed nationwide general election polling to show why Edwards is the Democrat with the best chance of defeating the Republican candidate in the 2008 general election for president, saying most notably:


Edwards is the only Democrat with a significant lead against Republican frontrunner Giuliani, and Edwards' average margin of victory is identical to or greater than Senator Obama's, well ahead of Senator Clinton's, against the other Republican candidates.
In looking at the overall win-loss-tie records, Edwards again has the best total record.

"Edwards also outperforms the other Democratic candidates in match-ups with Republican candidates in key battleground states including Iowa, Missouri, and Ohio," said Hickman. "Further, unlike other Democrats who must 'run the table' in states where Democrats have been competitive in recent elections, Edwards brings new states into play."
On Thursday, elected leaders and labor leaders in Georgia, Oklahoma and Wisconsin held press events and conference calls to discuss their reasons for supporting Edwards. The Edwards campaign also released lists of Democratic leaders from these states who have endorsed Edwards, including more than 50 endorsements from Georgia, more than 40 endorsements from Wisconsin, and endorsements from 32 of the 68 Democrats in the Oklahoma legislature.
"Instead of defending the broken system in Washington, we need a candidate that stands with working people," said Oklahoma Labor Commissioner Lloyd Fields. "John Edwards understands that creating economic fairness is part of building the middle class and moving America forward and he will fight to improve the lives of middle class families."
On Friday, Democratic legislative leaders from red states and battleground states will hold a conference call with reporters to discuss how Edwards' name on top of the ticket will benefit state and local Democratic candidates in down-ballot races. And on Monday, several of Edwards' U.S. Congressional supporters from red and battleground states will hold a call to discuss how only Edwards will help them maintain and expand the Democratic majorities in both houses of Congress.
"I am proud to have been among the first elected officials in Oregon to support John Edwards for president," said Oregon Senate President Pro Tem Margaret Carter. "John Edwards has the most comprehensive plans for transforming America and the best chance of winning here in Oregon and in every part of the country."
"The American people are tired of being ignored by the folks in Washington. The people who want real change in this nation don't just live in blue states or in swing states – they live in every state in this country and on every street in America," said Edwards. "I am committed to spreading a message of real change in every single state in this country. As the Democratic nominee, I will go to the places like Columbus, Kentucky that politicians usually ignore and I will work to get Democrats elected to Congress, governorships and state legislatures all across this country."
In addition, the Edwards' campaign website, www.johnedwards.com, also launched a new feature – a blue-starred banner that runs at the top of every page and re-directs those who click on it to a page that asks them to support the campaign for a "True Blue Majority" by contributing one dollar for each state in which Edwards has promised to campaign as the Democratic nominee --"50 States, $50."

Some of Edwards' key elected supporters from red states and battleground states include:
Congressional Supporters
U.S. Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ)
U.S. Rep. Bart Stupak (MI)
U.S. Rep. Jim Oberstar (MN)
U.S. Rep. G.K. Butterfield (NC)
U.S. Rep. Bob Etheridge (NC)
U.S. Rep. Brad Miller (NC)
U.S. Rep. Mel Watt (NC)
U.S. Rep. Mike McIntyre (NC)
U.S. Rep. David Price (NC)
U.S. Rep. Heath Shuler (NC)
U.S. Rep. Stephanie Herseth Sandlin (SD)
U.S. Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX)
U.S. Rep. Charlie Gonzales (TX)
U.S. Rep. David Obey (WI)
Former U.S. Rep. / former CA Senate President John Burton (CA)
Former U.S. Rep. Ed Jenkins (GA)
Former U.S. Rep. Ben "Cooter" Jones (GA)
Former U.S. Rep. Ken Lucas (KY)
Former U.S. Rep. David Bonior (MI)
Former U.S. Rep. Eva Clayton (NC)
Former U.S. Rep. Bob Weygand (RI)
Former U.S. Rep. Chris Bell (TX)
Former U.S. Rep. Max Sandlin (TX)
Statewide Supporters
CA Board of Equalization Chair Betty Yee
ND Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson
OK Labor Commissioner Lloyd Fields
VA Democratic Party Chair Dick Cranwell
WI Democratic Party Chair Joe Wineke
WI State Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass
Former GA Governor Roy Barnes
Former GA Lt. Governor Mark Taylor
Former GA Democratic Party Chair David Worley
Former IN Democratic Party Chair Robin Winston
Former IN Democratic Party Chair Anne Delany
Former KY Democratic Party Chair Bill Garmer
Former MA Attorney General Scott Harshbarger
Former MO Lt. Governor Joe Maxwell
Former NJ Governor / NJ Senate Majority Leader Dick Codey
Former NM Attorney General Patsy Madrid
Former ND Agriculture Secretary Sarah Vogel
Former ND Public Service Commissioner Bruce Hagen
Former NV Democratic Party Chair Richard "Tick" Segerblom
Former TX Democratic Party Chair Charles Soechting
Former WI Governor Tony Earl
State Legislative Leaders
CA Assistant President Pro Tem Leland Yee
GA Senate Dem. Leader Robert Brown
GA House Dem. Leader DuBose Porter
IN House Majority Whip Dennis Oxley
IN House Majority Leader Russ Stillwell
ME Senate President Beth Edmonds
ME Senate Asst. Majority Leader John Martin
MN House Asst. Majority Leader Aaron Petersen
MN House Majority Leader Tony Sertich
MO House Dem. Whip Connie Johnson
MO House Dem. Caucus Chair Ed Wildberger
ND Senate Minority Leader David O'Connell
ND House Minority Leader Merle Boucher
NJ Senate Deputy Majority Leader Joe Vitale
OK Senate President Pro-Tem Mike Morgan
OK House Democratic Leader Danny Morgan
OR Senate President Pro-Tem Margaret Carter
OR House Speaker Jeff Merkley
TX House Democratic Leader Jim Dunnam
TX Mexican-American Legislative Caucus Vice Chair Trey Martinez-Fischer
TX Legislative Study Group Chair / former TX Legislative Black Caucus Chair Garnet Coleman
VA House Democratic Leader Ward Armstrong
Former CA Assembly Speaker / L.A. City Councilmember Herb Wesson
Former CA Assembly Majority Leader Mike Roos
Former NV Senate Majority Leader Joe Neal
Former OH Senate Leader C.J. Prentiss
Former TN House Majority Whip Mike McDonald
Former WI House Majority Leader David Travis
Former MI Senate Minority Leader Mike Hanley
  