
    Mr. Prime Minister:
I wish to express my very deep appreciation to you and to all of those in Ireland who have given us such a warm welcome during our stay here.
When I arrived just 3 days ago I remember saying that if I had any time, a day off or a holiday, I could think of no better place to stay than in Ireland.
After having had that time, not all of it off, but some of it, I can recommend to all of my countrymen and any others in the world if you have a day off or more, come to Ireland. It is a wonderful place to Come.
I also on this occasion want to express my appreciation to you, the members of your Government for the opportunity we have had for some very serious talks on bilateral problems and other matters that concern us both as members of the world community with a deep desire for peace.
Our relations have always been good. I am sure they will be better in the years ahead and better because of the understanding on a personal basis that we have been able to develop on this trip.
Also I appreciated the fact that on this trip we had the opportunity not only to meet with members of your Government and with you personally, but also that I was allowed the opportunity to meet with members of my own staff on matters of great importance.
I will simply say that as I leave Ireland and when we look back on this stay, I am sure that these meetings, all of them, the ones that we have had with you and the ones we have had with our own staff, will be recorded as a period when we made a significant contribution not only to better understanding between our two peoples, but to the whole great ideal that we both desire, a peaceful world.
This is our purpose. It is your purpose. And I can assure you and all the members of your Government that in our meetings here we have worked toward that purpose, and we believe most constructively.
And so finally, now that we leave, I can only say that I appreciated your invitation to return. We shall return, either for a holiday or perhaps on another visit.
And may I reciprocate by saying that we look forward to the time when you and Mrs. Lynch will come to visit us in the United States. We hope that we can give you a really fine Irish welcome.
Thank you.
  