
    I am today signing an Executive order to improve the coordination of Federal agency activities in the Lake Tahoe Basin. The issuance of this order is a result of the actions I announced on May 30, 1980. In that announcement, I affirmed that Lake Tahoe is an area of national concern and that the quality of the lake must be protected. This step we are taking today will establish a Lake Tahoe Federal Coordinating Council to see that the Federal Government does its part to meet this objective. The Council will be composed of the Departments of Defense, Interior, Agriculture, Commerce, Transportation, Health and Human Services, Housing and Urban Development, and the Environmental Protection Agency.
The Council's purpose will be to ensure that Federal programs do not contribute to environmental degradation in the Lake Tahoe Basin. The Council will develop and issue environmental quality thresholds and carrying capacity standards for the air, water, and land resources in the region. Until these standards are adopted, the Council will recommend that proposed Federal actions having significant adverse environmental effects on the Lake Tahoe region not be approved. The Executive order also directs Federal agencies to review their programs and other actions which may affect the Lake Tahoe area and to defer action if such programs would significantly stimulate additional development in environmentally critical areas or would promote pollution from increases in auto traffic.
I am pleased that this Council already is being organized, has begun its assigned tasks, and is working in close consultation with the States, local agencies, and the public.
I am also pleased to see that California and Nevada have recently reached agreement on a revised Bi-State Tahoe Regional Planning Compact. An amended compact has been approved by both States and is now being presented to the Congress for ratification. I congratulate the Governors and legislatures of both States on this achievement. As I noted last May, it is our intention to help make this compact an effective planning instrument for Lake Tahoe. The Federal Council established today will work together with the compact agency to achieve this goal.
I am greatly encouraged by the initiatives taken thus far by the States and by the Congress as well. Pending legislation to provide for acquisition of environmentally sensitive lands at Lake Tahoe is now before the Congress. This legislation will complement the administration actions we are taking now, and it has my full support. I applaud the efforts of Congressmen Santini, Burton, and Fazio in gaining House approval of this bill, and I am hopeful that we will see this measure passed by the full Congress soon. I want to express my appreciation to all who have supported the Santini-Burton legislation, the amendment of the Tahoe Regional Planning Compact, and the establishment of the Federal Coordinating Council.
But the signing of an Executive order on the passage of a law is not a guarantee that we will protect the lake. All Americans have a stake in what we do to affect the quality of this priceless heritage. We all must be careful that the environmental stresses placed on this unique area are not exceeded. Our actions today will determine whether Lake Tahoe—a national treasure—will remain protected for future generations.
  