
    Democratic leaders in Wisconsin explain why Edwards' strength at the top of the ticket will motivate swing voters, helping Democrats maintain and expand their majority in Congress and win in down-ballot races in Wisconsin and across the nation
Madison, Wisconsin – As part of a new "True Blue Majority" campaign launching this week, today Democratic leaders from Wisconsin held a conference call with reporters, where they discussed their endorsement of Senator John Edwards for president. During the call, the endorsements of more than twenty prominent Wisconsin Party leaders and elected officials were unveiled, including Wisconsin Democratic Party Chair Joe Wineke and Wisconsin State Representatives Frank Boyle, Kim Hixson and Josh Zepnick. The new Edwards endorsements build on a list of 17 Wisconsin supporters unveiled earlier this year, including State Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass, Madison Mayor Dave Cieslewicz, former Governor Tony Earl, and Congressman David Obey, Chairman of the U.S. House Appropriations Committee. Edwards has now been endorsed by more than 40 prominent Democratic leaders in the state.
"It is so important that we nominate a candidate who will motivate swing voters in battleground states, like Wisconsin, to support the Democratic Party in 2008," said Wisconsin State Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass. "Poll after poll in the red and battleground states shows Edwards to be the strongest Democratic challenger in a general election match-up with the leading Republicans. Edwards' strength at the top of the ticket will help Democrats not only to take back the White House, but also to maintain and expand our majorities in Congress and state legislatures. And his coattails will help lead Democrats to victory in hundreds of other down-ballot races at the state and local level as well." "We need a leader who can compete anywhere in America and win," said Joe Wineke, Chairman of the Democratic Party of Wisconsin. "Some pundits say that a Democrat can't win in some places in the South, Midwest or West. But they're wrong. The right Democratic presidential nominee – one who shares our values, understands our issues and offers real and bold solutions – can win these states. That candidate is John Edwards."
"The American people are tired of being ignored by the folks in Washington. The people who want real change in this nation don't just live in blue states or in swing states – they live in every state in this country and on every street in America," said Edwards. "I am committed to spreading a message of real change in every single state in this country. As the Democratic nominee, I will go to the places like small towns in Wisconsin that politicians usually ignore, and I will work to get Democrats elected to Congress, governorships and state legislatures all across this country."
The following Wisconsin leaders have endorsed John Edwards for president*:


Wisconsin Democratic Party Chair Joe Wineke
State Representative Frank Boyle
State Representative Kim Hixson
State Representative Josh Zepnick
Wisconsin Democratic Party 2nd Vice Chair, Winnebago County Chair Jef Hall
Wisconsin Democratic Party Secretary Angela Sutkiewicz
8th Congressional District Administrative Committee Dottie LeClair
1st Congressional District Chair Ray Rivera
2nd CD Vice Chair, Dane County Democratic Party Executive Board Member, Peter Rickman
Former Executive Director of the Wisconsin Democratic Party, Dane County Democratic Party Executive Board member Don Jones
Former Executive Director of the Wisconsin Democratic Party Steve Kean
Dane County Democratic Party Chair Wayne Bigelow
Columbia County Democratic Party Chair Sara Lloyd
Fond du Lac County Democratic Party Chair Rich Mantz
Rock County Democratic Party Chair Tim Rutter
Waukesha County Democratic Party Chair Vic Weers
Washburn County Democratic Party Chair Susan Hansen
Portage County Democratic Party Co-Chair, 7th CD Administrative Committee Member, Greg Hawley
Portage County Democratic Party Co-Chair Lois Lawler
Former Democratic Nominee for the 5th Congressional District Bryan Kennedy
Lake Geneva City Council Member, Alderman Mary Jo Fessenmaier
Portage County Democratic Party Executive Board Member Charlene Figge
Marquette County Democratic Party Chair Jan Banicki

The following Wisconsin leaders have also endorsed Senator Edwards for president:


Congressman and Chairman of the House Appropriation Committee David Obey
State Treasurer Dawn Marie Sass
Madison Mayor Dave Cieslewicz
Former Governor Tony Earl
Public Service Commissioner Mark Meyer
State Senator and Co-Chair of the Committee on Joint Finance Russ Decker
State Senator Jon Erpenbach
State Senator Bob Jauch
State Senator John Lehman
State Senator Bob Wirch
State Representative Jennifer Shilling
State Representative and Former Majority Leader David Travis
State Representative Amy Sue Vruwink
State Representative Sondy Pope-Roberts
State Representative Donna Seidel
State Representative Mike Sheridan, UAW Local 95 President
2nd Vice Chair of State Democratic Party of Wisconsin, Dottie LeClair

*Please note: Endorsements are personal. Titles and positions are listed for identification purposes only.
  