
    Bachmann: "Of any time in history, this is the election when conservatives can have it all."

  
  
  
  
Urbandale, Iowa — Republican presidential candidate Michele Bachmann released a new web video today titled "I Won't Settle," recorded following her Liberty University Convocation Address, in which she highlights her commitment to stand for the conservative principles Americans value most.
"We can have someone who will stand for life and for marriage, stand up for Israel, stand up for national security, stand up for our brave men and women in the military, someone who will stand for strong fiscal policy, who will be committed to repealing Obamacare, who will build the fence on the southern border, who will make sure that we don't have magnets to bring illegal aliens across that border, I will do all of that as Commander in Chief and more," said Bachmann in her latest video.
The following is the full text of the video:
"Hi, My name is Michele Bachmann. I'm here at Liberty University. I've just finished speaking to the student body for their convocation. It's over 13,000 students that were in the basketball arena. It was a thrill to be able to be here and the crux of my remarks was on the subject of 'don't settle.' Don't settle in your spiritual life. Don't settle in your personal life. Don't settle with your career goals. And as a nation we can't settle either. We see that our nation is on the ropes right now – on the ropes economically, with very high unemployment, our housing values are down. But we are also on the ropes when it comes to foreign policy. There are threats that are coming all across the world and we need to stand up and stand with our ally Israel and stand against our enemy like a nuclear Iran. Those are part of the remarks that I gave today. This isn't a time for settling. About three weeks ago I started to hear the mantra of 'anybody but Obama. We need to make sure that the conservatives stand next to the wall and get behind the moderate candidate.' This is not the year to get behind the moderate. Of any time in history, this is the election when conservatives can have it all. We can have someone who will stand for life and for marriage, stand up for Israel, stand up for national security, stand up for our brave men and women in the military, someone who will stand for strong fiscal policy, who will be committed to repealing Obamacare, who will build the fence on the southern border, who will make sure that we don't have magnets to bring illegal aliens across that border, I will do all of that as Commander in Chief and more. As your president I want you to know, I won't settle."
To watch the "I Won't Settle" video, click here.
  