
    Pool Reports by Sean Collins Walsh, The Philadelphia Inquirer 



Sent:
Reports:




October 28, 202215:17

VP travel pool report #1 - arrival at Bryn Mawr College
VP landed at Philadelphia International Airport at 2:25 p.m., and arrived at Bryn Mawr College at 3:14 p.m.
She is at the all-women's college on Philadelphia's Main Line for a discussion on reproductive rights with U.S. Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (D., Pa.) and actress Sophia Bush.



October 28, 202215:53

VP travel pool report #2 - event at Bryn Mawr College
VP took the stage at 2:52 p.m. for a discussion on reproductive rights in light of the Dobbs decision with U.S. Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (D., Pa.) and actress Sophia Bush. Quotes tk.
The event, which is being livestreamed here, is one of 20+ stops that VP has made this summer and fall to highlight the importance of abortion rights, per a White House official.
Before VP came on stage, a lineup of speakers gave brief remarks about reproductive rights. They included Admiral Rachel Levine, Montgomery County Commissioner (and former US Senate candidate) Val Arkoosh, PA House Minority Leader Joanna McClinton, and Bryn Mawr president Kimberly Wright Cassidy.



October 28, 202216:28

VP travel pool report #3 - discussion on reproductive rights
Speaking at Bryn Mawr College, VP began by discussing how she was shaped by her mother's experience as a breast cancer researcher — with words like "mammary glands" being common dinner table conversation — and by her years as a prosecutor protecting women who were victims of crime.
VP then noted that, absent federal legislation codifying Roe, the battleground for abortion rights will be the state legislatures.
"It Is now falling on state leaders, local leaders — Gov. Wolf is doing an incredible job here — to do the work of standing and taking a principled stand to ensure that these rights will be protected," VP said.
VP said she asked her staff to compile a list where various rights were under attack by state legislatures.
"I said, 'Tell me from which states are we seeing attacks on women's reproductive healthcare, attacks on voting rights, and attacks on LGBTQ rights," VP said.
The states checking all three boxes included Florida, Georgia, Texas, Alabama, and Arizona, she said.
VP said the key to protecting rights in those states is to build new coalitions, mirroring the success of previous social justice movements, such as the fight for women's rights that led to the Roe decision in 1973.
"The key ingredient has been the coalition that was built around those movements," she said. VP said the messaging around such a coalition could tap into the nation's fundamental values.
"Let's take back the flag because this is about freedom and liberty," VP said. "We are talking about founding principles. One could say first principles: freedom and liberty."
In response to a question from Bush, VP then referenced GOP Senate candidate Mehmet Oz's comments in a debate last week that "local political leaders" should be involved in abortion decisions.
"It makes me imagine being in your OB's office, and there you are with your doctor, and then in the chair over there is your local [elected official]. You can't undo that image once you've seen it, can you?" VP said.
A young person who did not appear to be an invited speaker briefly interrupted VP's comments at one point, but her comments were not audible to your pooler.
VP thanked the audience member for her comments, and said, "We need to always be inclusive," before continuing her remarks.



October 28, 202216:33

VP travel pool report #4 - more from Bryn Mawr
"Our president Joe Biden has been very clear -- and this is a fact, not a political statement … if we hold on to the US Senate and gain two more senators … he will not let the filibuster get in the way of passing the Women's Health Protection Act."
VP said same goes for the John Lewis Freedom to Vote Act.



October 28, 202216:42

VP travel pool report #5 - departing Bryn Mawr
A handful of pro-Palestine protesters chanted as VP departed Bryn Mawr College at about 4:40 p.m., holding signs reading "Justice for Shireen Abu Akleh," "Free Palestine," and "End US support of Israel."



October 28, 202217:44

VP travel pool report #6 - Reserve Lounge
After departing Bryn Mawr, VP made a surprise stop at a get-out-the-vote happy hour at Reserve Lounge in Center City Philadelphia featuring Democratic U.S. Senate nominee John Fetterman. The event was hosted by the locally powerful Laborers District Council of Philadelphia and was attended by members of Philadelphia's delegation to Harrisburg and some City Council members.
"I can't win to send me to DC without Philadelphia," Fetterman said. "Send me to DC. I'll be the 51st vote to get rid of the filibuster, raise our minimum wage, pass the PRO Act, defend Social Security and Medicare, codify Roe v. Wade."
Fetterman then introduced VP.
"One of the things I know about this town and this state is you love a fighter," VP said. "You got a fighter [in Fetterman]. We need our fighters."



October 28, 202218:01

VP travel pool report #7 - VP gaggle
VP took questions from reporters after departing the Reserve Lounge. She spoke about the need to elect Fetterman to the US Senate, and about the attack on House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's husband, saying that overheated political rhetoric in recent elections is dangerous. Quotes tk. VP is en route to the Pennsylvania Convention Center for the PA Democratic Party's Independence Diner.



October 28, 202218:31
VP travel pool report #8 - VP gaggle cont'd
VP has arrived at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in Center City Philadelphia for the Pennsylvania Democratic Party's Independence Dinner, which is beginning shortly.
Here are full quotes from her comments from the gaggle outside the previous stop:
On John Fetterman:
"I absolutely do believe that John Fetterman will win this election. It's going to require everybody to understand what's at stake, and so much is at stake. When we look at the fact that — just by the way of contrast between him and his opponent — we're looking at Social Security and Medicare being on the line."
… "The reality is that John Fetterman is a fighter. We know that about him. He has the character, he has the desire to represent the people and to do in a way that — he understands what struggle means. He understands what it means to overcome and to support people who are trying to get through the day, get through the week, and get through the month."
On the attack on Paul Pelosi:
"I did talk with Speaker Pelosi this morning, and this was an act of extreme violence, and I think we're looking at a time in our country where there is so much discourse that is fueled by hate and division. And anyone who professes to be a leader has to really understand the meaning and the impact of their words and their posture on things like this. I pray for Paul's recovery, I know the Pelosis, and this is tragic. Somebody literally broke into their home, saying, 'Where's Nancy?' And I strongly believe that each one of us has to speak out against hate, we have to speak out against violence obviously, and speak to our better selves. There's absolutely room and it is important to have public discourse when there are disagreements about policy. But what we've been seeing recently is so base in terms of the reducing it down to something that I think is beneath the dignity and the intelligence of the American people."



October 28, 202219:49

VP travel pool report #9 - Pennsylvania Convention Center
VP spoke for about 15 minutes beginning at about 7:30 p.m. at the Pennsylvania Democratic Party's annual Independence Dinner at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in Center City Philadelphia.
VP referred to President Biden as "one of Pennsylvania's proudest sons."
She thanked Pennsylvanians for helping Biden and her get elected in 2020.
"Because of millions of Americans like you in 2020, Joe Biden and I won the commonwealth of Pennsylvania," she said. "Over these last 22 months, Democrats led by President Biden have delivered."
She praised Democratic candidates John Fetterman and Josh Shapiro and emphasized the importance of the midterm elections.
"Imagine — it's difficult and hard to imagine — but imagine if we lost the governor's office in Harrisburg. ... Imagine if we lost that and our majorities in the House and the Senate. That would mean that big lies and extremism will rule the day. That's what will happen. And we know what will then follow," VP said.



October 28, 202221:41

VP travel pool report #10 - wheels up
VP took off from Philadelphia International Airport at 9:29 p.m.




  