
    Pool Reports by Noah Robertson, The Christian Science Monitor



Sent:
Reports:




 October 8, 2020 10:20

 White House Pool #1 | Good Morning 
Good morning everyone,I'm your pooler today and just finished my covid test in lower press, along with the rest of the crew.
It's a delightful, sunny day in the mid-60s. The president has no public events on his schedule, and we're holding tight.
Feel free to ping me with any questions. I'll keep you updated as I go along. 


 October 8, 2020 12:09

 White House Pool #2 | Lunch 
?The WH called a lunch lid until 1:00 p.m.
There's little to report here so far, though I've heard from the TV poolers with Fox that spokesperson Alyssa Farah will be giving an interview at 5:00 this evening. 


 October 8, 2020 13:28

 White House Pool #3 | Video, etc. 
Just making sure you all saw the president's latest video. I'm asking the WH for further details – when these were filmed, where they were filmed, whether it was on the South Lawn or through a green screen. Will fill you in as I hear back.https://twitter.com/realDonaldTrump/status/1314252606110412806
Also, there's been a back-and-forth since POTUS's interview this morning on whether he'll attend the next debate if it's virtual. Here's his campaign's statement, released soon after:https://www.donaldjtrump.com/media/further-statement-from-the-trump-camp...
And the Biden campaign's response:
Statement by Biden for President Deputy Campaign Manager and Communications Director Kate Bedingfield:"Donald Trump doesn't make the debate schedule; the Debate Commission does. We accepted the three dates — Sept. 29, Oct. 15, and Oct. 22 — in June. Trump chose today to pull out of the October 15th debate. Trump's erratic behavior does not allow him to rewrite the calendar, and pick new dates of his choosing. We look forward to participating in the final debate, scheduled for October 22, which already is tied for the latest debate date in 40 years. Donald Trump can show up, or he can decline again. That's his choice." 


 October 8, 2020 14:12

 White House Pool #4 | Video clarification 
Regarding the earlier questions, a white house official told me that both videos posted to his Twitter feed today were filmed yesterday actually on the South Lawn. 


 October 8, 2020 15:13

 White House Pool #5 | Alyssa Farah Gaggle 
White House Director of Strategic Communications Alyssa Farah stopped for a short interview after finishing a TV appearance just before 3 p.m. She declined to specify when the president last tested negative for coronavirus, mentioned we may hear from Doctor Sean Conley today, and said she thinks there will be a second debate, though without giving details. Below are a quick transcription and the accompanying audio for accuracy.
When was the last time the president tested negative?
"I can't reveal that at this time. Doctors would like to keep it private"
But why is that?
"My understanding is that it's his private medical history."
But they reveal a lot of medical history. So why can't you reveal that?
"I'm happy to raise that to the doctors, but my understanding is that we're not making it public."
Does the White House understand why that is so critical?
"I think it's a very fair question so we're happy to try and get you an answer on that"
Will we get a doctor's report today Alyssa?
"I anticipate Doc Conley will be giving you a report today"
Was the president blaming Gold Star families last Sunday for potentially giving him the infection?
"No, absolutely not and I appreciate you asking so we can clarify. His point was merely that in the timeframe that he was potentially exposed, there were a number of different venues he'd been at and individuals he had interacted with that it could have come from – and by no means are blaming anyone who was present. And we did take a lot of precautions for that event. So based on contact tracing, the data we have, we don't think it arose from that event."
Was everyone from that event tested, or what about the Rose Garden event? And I'm saying everybody, not most people.
"I know that everyone at the Gold Star event was tested because it was indoors. I don't know for the Rose Garden event but I can try to track that down."
So is there going to be a second debate?
"I anticipate there will be a second debate. We're going to want to do it in person. It's not going to be virtual."
Nancy Pelosi said today she's not willing to consider a alone airline bill unless it comes as part of a bigger package. Is that something that the president would be open to supporting?
"We've made very clear we want a skinny package. We're for direct payments, we're for extension of PPP, and we'd like to see an airline bailout, but not part of a larger package."
"So if there is a second debate, does that mean on time or something different?"
"That I don't know. I defer to the campaign."
"Does he feel like he can turn around the state of the race if there isn't a second debate?
"We're very confident." 


 October 8, 2020 17:04

 White House Pool #6 | POTUS in Oval Office 
Deputy Press Secretary Judd Deere confirmed to radio pooler Patsy Widakuswara of VOA that the president is in the Oval Office.
See picture below: 


 October 8, 2020 17:57

 White House Pool #7 | Alyssa Farah Gaggle no. 2 
After finishing another interview on Fox around 5:30, Alyssa Farah spoke briefly with the pool again. She told us to expect a letter from Dr. Conley on the president's condition within an hour and that the administration is negotiating a "piecemeal" relief package with Congress – open to something bigger but not the Democrats' proposal.
Audio and transcription are copied below:
Will we hear from Dr. Conley today?
"We are anticipating that we put out a letter from him not a direct-to-camera briefing. I apologize if I wasn't clear about that."
Do you know when that will come out?
"Pry within the next hour. I'll try to get it to you folks quick."
Is the president in the Oval and what is he doing today?
"He's working from the Oval today. I know he's making some calls. He had a call with the Hill earlier. And I just want to note, because I spoke with you guys earlier about where we are on stimulus talks, the president remains committed to we'd like to see airline aid. We'd like to see sort of a skinny piecemeal bill if we're able to get that, that will deal with PPP and with direct payments. But we're open to going with something bigger, but we're not going to operate from the 2.2 trillion that the speaker laid out."
Does the president appear to be in an altered state, as Nancy Pelosi suggests?
"Absolutely not. The president's strong. He's working. He's never stopped."
Can you just give a sense of how he's doing right now?
"He's doing great. He's doing great. You'll get a letter from Dr. Conley."
(also, the president says he will host a "virtual rally" with Rush Limbaugh tomorrow. The Hill wrote a story here.) (https:/thehill.com/homenews/media/520215-limbaugh-trump-to-hold-virtual-rally-on-radio-show-friday) 


 October 8, 2020 18:47

 White House Pool #8 | Travel/Photo Lid 
?The WH issued a lid at 6:45 p.m. That's all for today – have a good evening everyone! 



  