
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:

Mary J. Miller, Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Markets, Department of the Treasury
Bert DiClemente, Director, AMTRAK Board of Directors
Anthony R. Coscia, Director, AMTRAK Board of Directors

President Obama said, "I appreciate the willingness of these individuals to serve the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Mary J. Miller, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Financial Markets, Department of the Treasury
Mary J. Miller is a vice president of T. Rowe Price Group, Inc., and T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc., and the director of the Fixed Income Division. She is a member of the firm's Management and Finance Committees and chairperson of the Fixed Income Steering Committee. Ms. Miller serves as president of a number of T. Rowe Price fixed-income mutual funds, the Tax-Free Income Fund, the U. S. Treasury Funds, and the Strategic Income Fund. She also has key investment management responsibilities on the firm's Asset Allocation Committee and serves as an Investment Advisory Committee co-chairperson for the Tax-Free Income Fund. Prior to joining T. Rowe Price in 1983, Ms. Miller was a research associate for the Urban Institute in Washington, D.C. She earned a B.A. from Cornell University and an M.C.R.P. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. Ms. Miller also has earned her Chartered Financial Analyst designation.
Bert DiClemente, Nominee for Director, AMTRAK Board of Directors
Bert DiClemente is currently serving as the Vice President of CB Richard Ellis, Inc., which is the largest commercial real estate company in the world. He has been serving in this capacity since 2003. Prior to this position, he worked for Insignia/ESG and Jackson Cross & Associates as Director and Associate Director. He was responsible for the leasing and selling of commercial real estate and represented a number of Fortune 500 Companies. Mr. DiClemente also served from 1977-1997 as the State Director for then-Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr. in Wilmington, DE. In this capacity, he was responsible for three statewide Senate offices and was a senior staff advisor to the Senator on all issues and policies related to the State of Delaware. He is a graduate of the University of Delaware with a B.A. in political science.
Anthony R. Coscia, Nominee for Director, AMTRAK Board of Directors
Anthony R. Coscia was appointed Chairman of the Board of Commissioners of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in April 2003. As Chairman, Mr. Coscia has broad oversight responsibility in connection with the agency's varied transportation businesses and $6.7 billion annual budget. Mr. Coscia's aims as Chairman include ensuring the safety and security of the Port Authority's facilities, improving the transportation networks between New York and New Jersey, spearheading the agency's new mass transit rail initiatives, increasing the transparency of the Board of Commissioners' decision making process, promoting environmental sustainability as an agency goal, rebuilding the World Trade Center as a driving force for the region's economic recovery, and establishing a memorial to those lost in the September 11, 2001 attacks. From February 1992 to March 2003, Mr. Coscia served as Chairman of the New Jersey Economic Development Authority ("NJEDA"). Mr. Coscia is also a Partner at Windels Marx Lane & Mittendorf, LLP. He has specific experience in the area of redevelopment finance and has worked extensively on corporate governance issues. He is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service (B.S.F.S., 1981) and he received his law degree from Rutgers University School of Law (J.D., 1984).
  