
    Today, Biden for President is launching a paid media campaign centered around Joe Biden's faith, values, and principles and how they have storied his life like other Americans. The trio of ads will be placed on faith-based TV and radio programs and target faith-interested voters across digital platforms in key battleground states.
In a stark contrast to Donald Trump, who tear gassed protesters to pose for a photo op with a Bible in front of a church, the ads depict how Biden's faith is deeply connected to his life story and commitment to public service and illustrates why Biden is the clear moral choice in this election.
Airing on Catholic TV programs is "Principles," which features Biden speaking to Father Matt Malone, S.J., editor in chief of America, about core lessons he learned from his father: stopping the abuse of power and treating everyone with dignity.
Airing on Christian TV programs is "Morning," an ad that narrates how Biden's faith has carried him through dark times — like losing family members — but has also given him hope and purpose, which is what the country needs from a leader. 
 Watch "Principles" HERE.
 Watch "Morning" HERE.
 Additionally, "A Man Guided by Faith" will air on Christian radio networks, which is a powerful, minute-long testimonial from one of Biden's fellow parishioners. She describes how their sons became friends through Church and still sees Biden attend mass on Sundays to this day, underscoring how his faith motivates his beliefs, values, and what kind of president he will be — learned from his Catholic parents and Church nuns. The campaign has also been running radio ads on gospel radio stations geared towards African American listeners.
These ads highlight the contrast between the common good values of the Biden-Harris agenda, which deeply aligns with the values of people of faith, and the agenda of the current administration, which is based in divisiveness and fear.
The ads will air in a total of 14 states of where the campaign's paid media program is active — including Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
  