
    The following listing contains releases of the White House Press Office which are not included in this issue.
Released September 29, 1980
Advance text: remarks at the 37th Tri-Annual Convention of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union in New York, N.Y.
Advance text: remarks to the New York Business/Labor Committee for Carter/Mondale in New York, N.Y.
Released September 30, 1980
Fact sheet: revitalization program for the American steel industry
News conference: on the revitalization program fear the American steel industry—by Philip M. Klutznick, Secretary, and Robert E. Herzstein, Under Secretary for International Trade, Department of Commerce; Senator Jennings Randolph of West Virginia, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy; Ambassador Reubin O'D. Askew, United States Trade Representative; Douglas M. Costle, Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency; Lloyd McBride, president, United Steelworkers of America; and William DeLancey, president, Republic Steel
Advance text: remarks at the annual meetings of the World Bank Group and International Monetary Fund
Released October 1, 1980
Advance text: remarks to employees of the Ford Automobile Assembly Plant in Wayne, Mich.
Advance text: opening remarks at the townhall meeting in Flint, Mich.
Advance text: remarks on signing S. 2443 into law at a ceremony in Niagara Falls, N.Y.
Advance text: remarks at the annual convention of the Civil Service Employees Association in Niagara Falls, N.Y.
Released October 2, 1980
Advance text: opening remarks at the townhall meeting in Dayton, Ohio
Released October 3, 1980
Advance text: remarks at a White House reception for the National Association of Women Judges
Fact sheet: H.R. 5192, Education Amendments of 1980
News conference: on the administration's legislative accomplishments and the status of pending legislation—by Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison; James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director, Office of Management and Budget; William H. Cable, Deputy Assistant for Congressional Liaison (House); and Mr. Eizenstat
  