
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 5
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia concerning the situation in Kosovo.
In the afternoon, the President met with Senate Minority Leader Thomas A. Daschle and House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate John Austin Moran to be a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen Hadley and Zalmay Khalilzad to be members of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace.
The President announced his intention to nominate John F. Walsh to be a member of the U.S. Postal Service Board of Governors.
The President announced his intention to nominate David M. Walker to be Comptroller of the United States at the General Accounting Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Andrea Kidd Taylor to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Lee R. Seeman to be a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
The President declared a major disaster in Washington and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on May 26-29.
October 6
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom concerning the situation in Kosovo and the international economic situation.
Later in the morning, the President met with President Carlos Menem of Argentina at the Marriott Wardman Park Hotel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kay Kelley Arnold to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Timothy F. Geithner to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edwin M. Truman to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donnie R. Marshall to be Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ralph B. Everett to the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as the Chair of the U.S. delegation to the 1998 International Telecommunication Union Plenipotentiary Conference.
October 7
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with President Fernando Cardoso of Brazil to congratulate Mr. Cardoso on his reelection and brief him on the October 6 economic meetings in Washington. Later, the President met with Representative Vic Fazio, chairman of the House Democratic caucus, in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Harold J. Creel, Jr., to be a Commissioner on the Federal Maritime Commission.
October 8
The President announced his intention to nominate Gary L. Visscher to be a member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gary Gensler to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for Domestic Finance.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth M. Bresnahan to be Chief Financial Officer at the Labor Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathleen M. Gillespie to be a Commissioner on the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
October 9
In the afternoon, the President had a working luncheon with Chancellor-elect Gerhard Schroeder of Germany in the Old Family Dining Room.
Later, the President met with Presidents Alberto Fujimori of Peru and Jamil Mahuad Witt of Ecuador in the Oval Office.
The President announced the nomination of Timothy Fields, Jr., to be Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste at the Environmental Protection Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate James M. Simon, Jr., to be Assistant Director for Administration at the Central Intelligence Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur Naparstek to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Guam, Malaysia, Japan, and Korea November 13-22 to attend the annual Asia Pacific Economic Conference and consult with two of the United States' closest allies in the region on the global economic situation, regional security, and other bilateral issues.
  