
    During National Dyslexia Awareness Month, we recognize the significant contributions made by those living with dyslexia to the unparalleled prosperity and strength of our great Nation. We also pledge to continue fostering an environment that enables all Americans to live more productive, happier, and fuller lives.
As the most common language-based learning disability, dyslexia affects millions of Americans. Those living with this condition experience difficulties with writing and reading. The impacts of dyslexia are often felt the hardest in the classroom, where students with this learning disability can become frustrated by slower rates of academic advancement compared to those of their classmates. This month, we are reminded of the extraordinary work our country's outstanding educators are doing to help ensure every child has the opportunity to grow and succeed both in and out of the classroom. Further, we recognize that children with dyslexia work diligently to excel in the classroom and to build a bright future for themselves.
While dyslexia is most often associated with academic performance, the effects of this learning disability can extend into adult life and lead to difficulty finding and securing employment. Earlier this year, the United States Department of Labor's Office of Disability Employment Policy launched its pilot Apprenticeship Inclusion Models (AIM) initiative. The AIM initiative will help Americans living with disabilities like dyslexia secure apprenticeships so they can learn valuable skills in high-demand industries. By partnering with employers and apprenticeship programs, AIM can help individuals with disabilities take the next step toward a more fulfilling and meaningful career while earning family-sustaining wages and contributing to our country's economic success.
Throughout this month, I encourage all Americans to seek out opportunities to remove the stigma associated with learning disabilities such as dyslexia. Through increased awareness and advances in research—along with the support and encouragement of their fellow citizens—we can help those with dyslexia triumph in their communities and workplaces.
  