
    To the Congress of the United States:
In accordance with section 203(b) (2) of the Trade Act of 1974, enclosed is a report to the Congress setting forth my determination that import relief for the U.S. clothespin industry is not in the national economic interest, and explaining the reasons for my decision.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
October 2, 1978.
IMPORT RELIEF ACTION
CLOTHESPINS FROM THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (PRC)
As required under sections 406(b) and 203(b) (2) of the Trade Act of 1974, I am transmitting this report to Congress setting forth the action I will take with respect to clothespins covered by the affirmative finding on August $, 1978, of the U.S. International Trade Commission (USITC) under section 406(a) (3) of the Trade Act. As my action differs from that recommended by the USITC, I have included the reasons for my decision.
After considering all relevant aspects of the case, including those considerations set forth in section 202(c) of the Trade Act of 1974, I have determined that import relief for the domestic clothespin industry would not be in the national economic interest for the following reasons:
1. The imposition of import relief would not be an effective means to promote adjustment in the industry. While imports from the PRC have become an increasingly important component of U.S. imports, other foreign sources still accounted for seventy-three percent of all U.S. imports in 1977. Foreign sources, other than the PRC, are able to supply clothespins to the U.S. market at prices significantly be. low the prices charged by U.S. producers. Moreover, existing foreign capacity would not be a limitation on foreign producer ability to increase shipments to the U.S. Thus, third country suppliers would likely fill any excess U.S. demand resulting from a limitation of any kind on imports of clothespins from the PRC.
2. It should be noted that the USITC has instituted an investigation under section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 to determine whether clothespins from all foreign suppliers are being imported into the United States in such quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof, to the domestic industry. A determination on this case by the USITC is due by November 21, 1978. The import problems facing the domestic clothespin industry will be considered further within the context of this pending escape clause case.
  