
    John Bobbitt, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Suzanne Israel Tufts, resigned.
Patrick J. Bumatay, of California, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Carlos T. Bea, retiring.
Sylvia Carreño-Coll, of Puerto Rico, to be United States District Judge for the District of Puerto Rico, vice Jay A. Garcia-Gregory, retired.
Peter J. Coniglio, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Export-Import Bank, vice Osvaldo Luis Gratacos Munet, resigned.
James P. Danly, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2023, vice Kevin J. McIntyre.
John M. Gallagher, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Joel H. Slomsky, retired.
Peter Gaynor, of Rhode Island, to be Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security, vice Brock Long, resigned.
William Ellison Grayson, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia.
John Hennessey-Niland, of Illinois, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Palau.
Barbara Bailey Jongbloed, of Connecticut, to be United States District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Alvin W. Thompson, retired.
Kipp Kranbuhl, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Matthew S. Rutherford, resigned.
Barbara Lagoa, of Florida, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Stanley Marcus, retiring.
Leora Rosenberg Levy, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile.
Robert J. Luck, of Florida, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Gerald B. Tjoflat, retiring.
Sherri A. Lydon, of South Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice A. Marvin Quattlebaum, Jr., elevated.
Katharine MacGregor, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Secretary of the Interior, vice David Bernhardt, resigned.
Brian D. Montgomery, of Texas, to be Deputy Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Pamela Hughes Patenaude, resigned.
Sean O'Donnell, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Arthur Allen Elkins, Jr., resigned.
Bruce Poliquin, of Maine, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation for a term expiring December 31, 2021, vice Sharon Y. Bowen, term expired.
Scott H. Rash, of Arizona, to be United States District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Cindy K. Jorgenson, retired.
Paul J. Ray, of Tennessee, to be Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, vice Neomi Rao, resigned.
Barbera Hale Thornhill, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Singapore.
Lawrence VanDyke, of Nevada, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Jay S. Bybee, retiring.
Cory T. Wilson, of Mississippi, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Mississippi, vice Louis Guirola, Jr., retired.
Donald Wright, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Executive Service, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Kimberly Breier, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2020, vice Adolfo A. Franco, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 16, 2019.
Patrick J. Bumatay, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of California, vice Marilyn L. Huff, retired, which was sent to the Senate on February 6, 2019.
Peter M. Vito, of New York, to be United States Marshal for the Western District of New York for the term of four years, vice Charles F. Salina, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on May 13, 2019.
  