
    The President today announced the reappointment of John J. Phelan, Jr., chairman and chief executive officer of the New York Stock Exchange, as Chairman of the Presidential Board of Advisors on Private Sector Initiatives; and Edward O. Fritts, president and chief executive officer of the National Association of Broadcasters, as Vice Chairman of the Presidential Board of Advisors.
In addition, the President announced the reappointment of the following individuals as members of the Board:
John M. Albertine, vice chairman, Farley Industries;
Ann Ascher, president, Ann Ascher, Inc.;
Frederic II. Brooks, chairman of the board, MacGregor Sporting Goods, Inc.;
Michael P. Castine, director, Spencer Stuart;
Don V. Cogman, president, Americans for Responsible Government;
Elaine D. Crispen, Press Secretary to the First Lady, the White House;
Jock Elliott, chairman emeritus, Ogilvy & Mather;
Thomas W. Evans, partner, Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon;
Lyda Hill president, Hill Development Corp.;
James L. Ketelsen, chairman of the board, Tenneco, Inc.;
Gordon C. Luce, chairman of the board and chief executive officer, the Great American First Savings Bank;
A.C. Lyles, A.C. Lyles Productions, Paramount Pictures;
George F. Moody, president, chief executive officer and director, Security Pacific Corp. and Security Pacific National Bank;
Robert Mosbacher, Jr., president, Mosbacher Energy Co.;
Dana G. Rinehart, mayor of Columbus, OH;
George W. Romney, chairman, VOLUNTEER: The National Center;
Paul C. Sheeline, deputy chairman, Inter-Continental Hotels Corp.;
Robert D. Sparks, president, W.K. Kellogg Foundation;
Jean Stone, civic leader;
R. William Taylor, president, American Society of Association Executives;
Richard Treibick, president and chairman of the board, Cable Holdings, Inc.;
Alexander Trowbridge, president, National Association of Manufacturers;
C. William Verity, Jr., chairman of the executive committee, Armco, Inc.;
Robert Woodson, president, National Center for Neighborhood Enterprise.
The President's Board of Advisors on Private Sector Initiatives works to encourage charitable giving, voluntarism, public-private partnerships, and corporate social responsibility.
  