
    Yesterday, President Biden presented the Build Back Better Framework to Congress, and highlighted its transformative investment in climate, care, and kids, that will lower the costs of things families depend on, help people get back to work, and grow the economy.
The Framework is designed to level the playing field and make corporations and the wealthiest pay their fair share, so that middle class families can finally get some breathing room.
President Biden heard input from all sides and announced a Build Back Better framework he is confident will pass through Congress and be signed into law, delivering generational investments in the economy for working people.
The Build Back Better Framework will transform the lives of millions of children, saving parents thousands of dollars, and adding two years of free, universal schooling to our education system for the first time in over 100 years. It will be the largest effort to combat climate change in history. It will cut taxes for tens of millions of middle-class families. It is the biggest expansion of affordable health care in a decade. As the President said, it's a big darn deal.
Union leaders applauded the President and praised the framework.
See below for what they are saying:
Mary Kay Henry, International President, Service Employees International Union: "Essential workers have been unwavering in their demands to invest in working families of all races and, with the framework he announced today, President Biden has taken an important step to build an economy that works for all of us. This is a commitment to working people, with an historic investment in home care workers and care services, major progress on climate justice, essential protections for immigrants, and other meaningful investments for America's working families. Now the President and Congress have to get this to the finish line. The inclusion of a first-of-its-kind investment in home care will raise wages, ensure a voice on the job for millions of home care workers — the Black, Latina, Asian Pacific Islander, Indigenous, and immigrant women hit hardest by the COVID-19 pandemic — and expand affordable, quality care for America's seniors, people with disabilities and others who need it. This new framework includes critical investments in child care and universal Pre-K so working people can care for themselves and their loved ones. With major climate action initiatives that will reduce emissions and create hundreds of thousands of good union jobs, alongside much needed relief for immigrants who have made their lives here, the Build Back Better legislation would deliver real change for working families. Congress must act quickly to get this done and to ensure this package makes it to President Biden's desk in full. Still, our work is far from over. We need to invest more resources in addressing the nation's care and climate crises and other important priorities to realize the full promise of our vision for an economy that works for everyone, no exceptions. We will not stop fighting until every worker across the country has paid leave to take care of themselves and their families. And our nation won't be whole until there is a path to citizenship for all immigrant workers and their families. SEIU members and worker leaders in the Fight for $15 and a Union will keep raising our voices for the good union jobs, access to care, and racial, social, and economic justice our communities deserve." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Lee Saunders, President, American Federation of State, County & Municipal Employees: "For decades, we have confronted a rigged system that has starved working people of opportunity while rewarding and privileging the super-wealthy. Finally, that's changing. We need a sturdy foundation for an economy that prioritizes the needs and interests of working people. That's what Build Back Better is all about. The framework announced today represents a fundamental shift in the priorities of the federal government. It is the biggest hand-up to working families in generations, while requiring that the wealthy and big corporations begin paying their fair share in taxes. Combined with the separate bill to rebuild our roads, bridges, and water systems – a package that will create millions of middle-class union jobs – we are on the cusp of a transformational investment in both our physical and human infrastructure. Universal pre-kindergarten education alone is a landmark achievement. The same can be said for giving 20 million kids access to quality child care; for providing free school meals to 8.7 million children during the school year; for huge investments in home care services; for an unprecedented expansion of affordable housing; for clean energy tax credits and the other climate change mitigation elements of the bill. Combined, they add up to sweeping, historic change that will improve millions upon millions of lives. And AFSCME members will be instrumental in delivering the additional services provided in the bill. Not every important priority is addressed in the framework – to get to a compromise, some items could not be included. But they are not being abandoned, only deferred. We will continue to work on limiting the rising cost of prescription drugs for people of all ages. We will continue to fight for paid family leave and free community college, among other things. This is a huge, sea change moment. The passage of these two bills would close the book on the age of austerity. It would take critical steps toward unrigging the system, restoring balance to the economy, and finally reinvesting in working families and communities. On behalf of 1.4 million AFSCME members, I urge Congress to pass them both immediately." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Becky Pringle, President, National Education Association: "Whether you live in a large city, the suburbs, or rural America, we all have a fundamental right to the American Dream. But for too long, the playing field has been uneven, or barricades have blocked the pathway to the middle class and other upward mobility. Like the investments made to help working families during the New Deal and Great Society eras, President Biden's Build Back Better Act will be the most significant investment in our country's social safety net in more than half a century. This agenda is not just a once-in-a-generation investment in children, students, educators, and working families. It is a bold new vision of what this country should—and can—be for all Americans, whether Black, brown, white, Native, newcomer, Hispanic, and Asian alike. We applaud the leadership of President Biden and Vice President Harris, Speaker Pelosi and Majority Leader Schumer and the many representatives and senators for creating this historic framework to a better America. We urge Congress to pass this historic agenda swiftly." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Marc Perrone, International President, United Food and Commercial Workers: "Today's new Build Back Better framework sends a clear message that this White House is committed to investing in America's essential workers and their families. Frontline workers in grocery stores and meatpacking plants have faced some of the highest COVID risks throughout the pandemic as they stepped up to keep our food supply chain strong when we needed it most. This plan honors the incredible sacrifices and service of these workers and their families. With action to make child care more affordable, expand health coverage, and increase access to education and training for good jobs, this Build Back Better framework is putting money back in the pockets of hardworking Americans and finally making sure that corporations pay their fair share. America's middle class was built by unions and the hardworking men and women who have been keeping our country strong throughout the pandemic. This Build Back Better framework is delivering on President Biden's promise to invest in American workers and families. As our nation's largest union for food and retail workers, UFCW is urging Congress to quickly pass this essential bill so that millions of workers and families can get the critical support they need." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of Teachers: "When President Joe Biden was elected, he promised to help 'build back better'— both to help our country recover, and to help families better their lives with opportunity, regardless of who they are and where they live. With the framework announced today, America has a chance to do just that. The investments these bills make together will be transformational for nearly every working family, affecting how they work, live, care for their loved ones and plan for their futures. They make good on the ultimate promise that government can problem-solve to make people's lives better. For too many families in America, life is an endless cycle of barely making ends meet—piecing together jobs, child and elder care, school, housing, healthcare and transportation, while living with the constant fear of a medical emergency or other unplanned expense. Today, our economy has very few systems to help systematically advantage regular people, putting the middle class increasingly out of reach. But this plan begins to change that, with historic down payments on the very things people rely on most: pre-K, so kids can access learning at a young age, which leads to long-lasting, multigenerational economic benefits; child tax credits, and child and elder care, so parents can afford to work or go to college and families aren't bankrupted when a parent falls ill or needs long-term care; housing, so no one must spend their entire income on rent and more Americans can put a roof over their heads; tax reforms, so the wealthy pay their fair share and communities aren't penalized for investing in public services; and sustainability, so we can address the climate realities we're facing. This agreement tackles challenges head on through smart, overdue investments in climate change mitigation and the human infrastructure of our country—our families, our kids and our future. Any transformational change is hard to get done, and this historic compromise is no different. It's disappointing that Republicans sat on their hands when it came to figuring out how to tackle climate sustainability, address certain family needs and support those who work in the care economy. Thankfully, Democrats, led by President Biden, kept their eyes on the prize. Our nation needs this long-term investment, which will enhance our competitiveness, strengthen our education system, and make our economy and our healthcare system more sustainable, resilient and just. Congress must move forward and pass the Build Back Better Act and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, and lead our country forward in this critical moment." [Statement and tweet, 10/28/21]
Ray Curry, President, United Auto Workers: "Today the White House announced a framework for legislation that will transform our economy for UAW members and working families through key investments to rebuild our infrastructure, strengthen our communities, and create good paying union jobs. President Biden, Speaker Pelosi, and Senate Majority Leader Schumer have worked hard to advance meaningful real-life enhancements to the American people. We need congress to pass the Infrastructure bill and Build Back Better Act so President Biden can sign them into law. For UAW members in the auto sector, the Stabenow-Kildee provision in the Build Back Better Act will create and preserve tens of thousands of UAW members' jobs by including an electric vehicle tax credit that will lower the cost of an electric vehicle that is made in America by union workers by as much as $12,500. It would be a win for auto manufacturing workers. The framework announced today supports good paying union jobs and stands to benefit our country for decades to come. In addition, this framework encourages nonunion manufacturers to let their workers freely organize. Now is the time for Congress to act so we can move forward as a country." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Communications Workers of America: "The Build Back Better framework announced by President Biden will fund transformational programs that solve real problems that working people face. It will also reign in corporations by increasing penalties for violating labor laws, implementing a corporate minimum tax, imposing a surcharge on stock buybacks and ending tax advantages for corporations that ship jobs overseas. These have long been priorities for our union. We can't afford to wait any longer for the relief these programs will bring. Our families need help making sure our children are well cared for - universal preschool, affordable child care and the child tax credit will do that. Our families need access to health care - Affordable Care Act tax credits and the Medicare hearing benefit will do that. We also need the jobs that the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will create. We need the high-speed internet networks that the infrastructure bill will fund, networks that will be built by companies who adhere to high labor standards, thanks to historic provisions in the bill that prioritize broadband projects from entities that have a demonstrated record of and plans to be in compliance with Federal labor and employment laws. The current Build Back Better framework represents real progress. Congress must help working people now and pass Build Back Better and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Eric Dean, General President, International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Iron Workers, AFL-CIO: "As General President of the International Association of Bridge, Structural, Ornamental and Reinforcing Iron Workers I applaud the House, Senate and White House negotiators for their agreement on a framework for the Build Back Better Act. This framework represents an historic investment in the wellbeing of the American working class, and I hope clears the way for the passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure bill. Our union represents 128,000 construction and fabrication workers across North America. President Biden's Build Back Better agenda, embodied in both these pieces of legislation, is critical to the future of ironworkers and working families everywhere. The framework puts domestic manufacturing and construction at the center of our fight against climate change with important investments in the clean energy supply chain and technology. It would provide a latter of opportunity for good union jobs through its support for registered apprenticeship programs. And it would improve the quality of workers' well-earned retirements by providing hearing coverage through Medicare – vital for industries like construction where noise exposure often leads to hearing loss. The framework's pay-fors correct longstanding injustices. For far too long, major corporations have offshored American jobs while exploiting the tax code to pay nothing in taxes. The framework's corporate minimum tax would ensure that corporations pay their fair share and can't dodge taxes by moving jobs to other countries. As the text of the Build Back Better Act comes together, our union calls on its writers to preserve the strong labor standards and important worker protections that they have championed throughout the negotiation process. This framework is a major step forward, and Congress should pass both the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act and Build Back Better Act as soon as each is possible." [Statement, 10/28/21]
John Costa, President, Amalgamated Transit Union International: "With critical relief for working families and historic funding to boost public transit, the Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU), the largest transit union in North America, applauds President Biden's proposed $1.75 trillion plan to end the stalemate on the Reconciliation Bill in Congress and calls for passage of the legislation immediately. This standoff in Congress on this critical legislation has gone on way too long while working Americans and their families need relief immediately. President Biden's plan, including the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, is a game changer for our country, public transit, and working families. It's a down payment on our future. It's time for Congress to put politics aside and do what is right for this country. The Biden plan, including the Infrastructure bill, provides a historic investment in fixing and modernizing our nation's crumbling transit infrastructure. This will help fight climate change with funding to replace thousands of gas-powered buses with clean, zero-emission vehicles and provide critical workforce development to ensure frontline transit workers are trained to safely repair, maintain, and operate vehicles with this new technology. The Union also applauds the infrastructure bill's inclusion of language from the ATU-backed Transit Worker and Pedestrian Protection Act that will make critical safety improvements to protect the lives of transit workers and passengers. For the first time, transit agencies will be required to take appropriate actions to ensure that workers are protected from these vicious attacks, improving safety conditions for everyone. Not a week goes by that we don't hear about a transit worker being punched, verbally abused, spit on, stabbed, shot, and even killed on the job. The epidemic of violent assaults on transit workers has plagued our country's transit systems for too long. These bills will help protect our members and riders and will save lives. The Biden Plan also includes critical measures to help American families, including measures on housing affordability, childcare, Medicare, education, and other critical issues. President Biden's plan will help move forward his vision of the Build Back Better so we as a nation can move forward. So much is on the line. It's time for Congress to pass the Biden Plan and deliver what the American people voted for." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Robert Martinez Jr., International President, International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers: "Our union is relieved that our nation's elected officials could agree on legislation impacting millions of working families. The IAM was instrumental in helping pass the American Rescue Plan and other rescue packages to help keep our members employed and their families secure. But these were temporary fixes to a problem that needs a permanent solution. The IAM applauds the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill and the framework agreement on the Build Back Better Act. Both pieces of legislation will provide historic investment for the airline, transit, aerospace, manufacturing and other critical industries. Build Back Better is transformative for families, with the Child Tax Credit, child care, universal pre-K, workforce development, and more. Corporations have been on the receiving end of corporate tax cuts and other special giveaways for too long. We need legislation that will embrace a pro-worker, pro-democracy agenda that provides millions of working families the opportunity to better wages and benefits. The infrastructure package will finally strengthen Buy America rules to help boost our domestic manufacturing sectors. Our union fought to include the most significant federal investment in public transit and passenger rail since the creation of Amtrak. Our transportation sector will benefit through the modernization projects created through the robust funding provided in this infrastructure package. This investment will help our vital manufacturing and transportation sectors build back better. Our union is dedicated to reversing the trend of an economy that serves the wealthiest and most prominent corporations so that working families can live a better life with decent wages and benefits." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Mark McManus, President, United Association of Union Plumbers and Pipefitters: "For generations, union members like ours have been promised good-paying jobs rebuilding our nation's infrastructure by presidents of both parties. With today's Build Back Better Framework, President Biden is one step closer to making good on that promise. Now, Congress must do their part and vote on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal today. This massive investment will ensure that the Brothers and Sisters of the United Association lead the way forward rebuilding our infrastructure, providing clean and safe water to all communities, and delivering affordable and reliable energy to American families. The strong labor protections in this bill, like prevailing wage standards and the use of registered apprenticeships, will create family-sustaining jobs for millions of Americans. A vote today will send a clear message on who stands with union members like ours or who stands in the way of creating these good-paying jobs. We look forward to working with the President and Members of Congress to get both bills across the finish line so we can get to work for the American people. The time to vote is today." [Statement, 10/28/21]
United Farm Workers: ".@POTUS just announced immigration in the Build Back Better framework. Tell your Congressmembers to keep their promise & secure permanent protections for immigrants this year. We can get immigration done through reconciliation, if we work together. Call: 202-999-4829 #WeAreHome" [Tweet, 10/28/21]
Teamsters: "It's time to rebuild the backbone of the country – the middle class. #Teamsters agree with @POTUS that the #BuildBackBetter framework and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Bill will do just that. #1u" [Tweet, 10/28/21]
Transportation Trades Department, AFL-CIO: "Here's what the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will mean for freight rail workers. @smartunionworks @smart_td_dc @IBEW @Teamsters" [Tweet, 10/28/21]
American Association of University Women: "The #BuildBackBetter framework released by the White House today is a win for women, caregivers, and families in many ways. But it MUST include #PaidLeave. Working people and our economy cannot thrive until we have #PaidLeaveforAll. Take action: [https://t.co/ZLDV7ZpmAN?amp=1]" [Tweet, 10/28/21]
Businesses Small Business for America's Future: "The framework of a deal to pass the president's economic agenda announced today presents an opportunity to level the playing field for small business owners and transform our economy for the better. Investments in our workforce, the care economy, and infrastructure will invigorate the Main Street economy, and small business owners are eager to see it pass swiftly. While this framework is critical, we know it doesn't include everything the country needs. After we pass this deal, we must keep pushing for critical policies like paid family and medical leave for every American, policies that reduce healthcare costs for small businesses and even more reforms to build a more equitable tax system for small businesses. However, this historic deal begins to level the playing field for small businesses by closing corporate tax loopholes, which will help prevent large multinational corporations from dodging their responsibilities. It is encouraging to see steps taken to ensure corporations pay their fair share and help provide revenue for the important investments the deal makes. Small business owners are eager to see these investments because they help Main Street businesses, families, workers, and bottom lines." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Frank Knapp, President and CEO, South Carolina Small Business Chamber of Commerce: "A big reason for today's labor shortage crisis is that women with children either can't find quality or affordable childcare. The Build Back Better package will effectively address this issue by both helping low- and moderate-income families with childcare costs and creating free, universal pre-kindergarten programs for 3 and 4 year olds." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Vic Shao, Co-Founder and CEO, AMPLY Power: "Over a hundred years ago, American ingenuity and hard work enabled the rise of transportation fueling infrastructure within 15 years. We are on the cusp of another energy revolution, driven by the same set of dynamics. But for electric vehicles to truly gain mass adoption, the infrastructure required to refuel these vehicles has to be rolled out at scale, like AMPLY's Omega Charge Management System. The Build Back Better Act will help drive implementation of infrastructure investments across the nation while creating good jobs and averting runaway climate change." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Kiran Bhatraju, Founder, Arcadia Power: "When given the opportunity, communities will choose a clean energy future. We see it day in and day out -- but we need investments from the federal government to ensure this opportunity is truly available for all. The Build Back Better Act includes exactly this type of investment and, once passed, will set our country on a better energy path that tackles climate change and reimagines how we power our communities." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Jon Powers, President, CleanCapital: "Bold, generational investments in clean energy and climate solutions like those included in the Build Back Better Act are a crucial part of the path to a net-zero future that will create jobs and put us on track to solve the climate crisis. By spurring innovation that will provide businesses, schools, non-profits, and municipalities with affordable renewable energy, these investments will rapidly speed up the clean energy transition and unleash significant private sector funds. Furthermore, they will provide unparalleled opportunities to create jobs in areas like American manufacturing for veterans seeking a new career. Veterans, like myself, are already a major part of the growth of clean energy and by passing the Build Back Better Act, Congress will make an important down payment to protect our nation's heroes." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Tom Matzzie, Founder and CEO, CleanChoice Energy: "Technology innovations in clean energy hardware, software, and the cloud have created an opportunity to build a rapidly growing clean energy economy that works for everyone. The Build Back Better Act will help companies like ours rapidly expand access to clean energy, provide good-paying jobs, and speed the transition to a clean energy future. Now is the time to pass a bold package like this; Congress must work expeditiously to get this done for the American people, our businesses, and our planet." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Cathy Zoi, CEO, EVgo: "The transition to electric vehicles (EVs) is happening, and the deployment of EV charging infrastructure will create jobs and combat climate change. EVgo commends the Build Back Better Act's focus on both consumer and infrastructure incentives which are needed in tandem to make Electric for All a reality." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Sheldon Kimber, CEO, Intersect Power: "The Build Back Better Act is a huge step forward in meeting President Biden's climate goals. But meeting them is going to take collective will, some social consensus, and leadership from the government and the private sector, and I hope that Congress finds the will to pass this legislation. As the leader of a clean energy company, we are ready to build the infrastructure we need to save the planet but we need the support outlined in the BBBA to do it. As a nation, we've accomplished great things with collective will, and I know we can do it again." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Dan Shugar, founder and CEO, Nextracker: "The transition to a clean energy economy fueled by solar and other renewables is not optional, it is an imperative. Investments made by the Build Back Better Act will deliver more affordable energy and transformational results to ensure that future generations have reliable power, good paying jobs, and clean air. This means Congress must act now to cement a better future for our country and our planet. We look forward to working with them to make this happen." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Billy Parish, CEO Mosaic Energy: "Arizonans are living on the frontlines of the climate crisis, and it is destroying our communities, burdening our families, and devastating our economy. By investing in clean energy, we can create thousands of good-paying jobs in our state while protecting our iconic landscapes. The investments outlined in this new framework present a clear opportunity for Arizona, and businesses like mine, to continue leading in the clean energy industry, and I encourage Congress to pass this bill and provide a jolt to our economy at the most critical time." [Statement, 10/28/21]
Scott Moskowitz, Director of Public Affairs, Q CELLS America: "American solar manufacturers are ready to help America pass the Climate Test and ensure our clean energy future is built at home. We're at a pivotal moment to accelerate the growth of the clean energy economy and to re-shore every step of the solar supply chain. With the Build Back Better Act, we can make sure that manufacturing workers in Georgia and around the country lead the world in building the clean energy future. The Build Back Better Act has the potential to be transformative—creating millions of clean energy jobs, reducing energy bills, and transforming how we power the planet for generations to come. [Statement, 10/28/21]
Liz Fairchild, Executive Director, Business Forward: "I applaud the Build Back Better framework released this morning. The hard-earned agreement calls for $1.75 trillion to make historic investments in combating climate change, strengthening our caregiving infrastructure, expanding affordable health care, and creating millions of good jobs — all while cutting costs and taxes for the middle class. Just days before President Biden heads to Glasgow for COP26, this morning's announcement allocates $555 billion to build a 21st century clean energy economy, the country's largest ever investment in climate action. The framework's investments are fully paid for with nearly $2 trillion in revenue-raising proposals, including closing the tax gap and ensuring the country's largest corporations contribute their fair share. I encourage Congress to move forward with the Build Back Better framework — along with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act — as soon as possible." [Statement, 10/28/21]
  