
    Harris was all for the $93-trillion manifesto to exterminate cows, ban airplanes, and kill millions of jobs.
Kamala Harris is the most radical, far-left vice presidential nominee in modern history, so it's no surprise that she has fully embraced the AOC's socialist, job-killing, anti-energy agenda known as the "Green New Deal."


One study found that the radical Green New Deal endorsed by Harris would kill 5.2 million jobs and cost an average family $165,000. 

The Green New Deal would dictate every aspect of our lives, eliminate consumer choice, decimate manufacturing and farming communities, and permanently crush the American economy -- and Kamala Harris fully embraced it.


Harris is a cosponsor of the Green New Deal legislation in the Senate and was the first Democrat presidential candidate to endorse the Green New Deal. 



Harris said "I support a Green New Deal" and bragged about her own energy plan being the "most aggressive and progressive."

Harris described the "principles behind" the radical Green New Deal as "sound and important"

Harris said she would support eliminating the Senate filibuster to pass a Green New Deal. 

From restricting cars and ending air travel to discouraging Americans from eating meat, the Green New Deal would be an unmitigated disaster for virtually every American.


According to a now-deleted fact sheet released by socialist Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the Green New Deal would eliminate "farting cows and airplanes" and provide "economic security" for anyone who is "unwilling to work." 



The Green New Deal would cost up to $93 trillion over 10 years, according to one estimate. The infrastructure alone would cost the U.S. an estimated $5.7 trillion.

Electricity bills would skyrocket, with the average American household's utility bill increasing by up to $3,900, and the average household cost surpassing $35,000 per year. 



Kamala Harris said Americans need to be "educated about the effect of our eating habits on the environment," pledged to change the dietary guidelines to reduce Americans' red meat consumption, and supports banning plastic straws and other products. 



Green New Deal activists have their eyes set on Americans' straws, cheeseburgers, and light bulbs to "change our energy consumption." 

Like Joe Biden, Kamala Harris is another anti-energy radical, supporting policies that would destroy American energy production.


Harris said she would "end any fossil fuel leases on public lands" and rejoin the Paris Climate Accord "on day one."

Harris wants to eliminate all fracking, saying "there's no question I'm in favor of banning fracking."

Harris said she would ban offshore drilling, and Biden agrees. 

A Biden-Harris Administration would relegate American farming and manufacturing to near-extinction, ship more jobs overseas, and take more of Americans' hard-earned money.
  