
    Pool Reports by Meridith McGraw, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




 October 7, 2020 10:51

 WH Pool #1 - Good morning 
Good morning from a very quiet White House on this beautiful fall day. The pool has completed COVID tests in the back office of the lower press area.
There is nothing on the president's schedule today, although he has already tweeted up a storm on a variety of subjects this morning.
Please reach out to me with any questions. I'll pass along any updates as I get them. Thanks! 


 October 7, 2020 12:10

 WH Pool #2 - Lunch lid until 1pm 
The WH has called a lid until 1pm.
There has been little activity here at the White House, although trade advisor Peter Navarro, wearing a mask and workout gear, walked by the press sitting outside the West Wing. Some photographers took photos and it was not well received by Mr. Navarro. I'm told by my TV pool counterpart Nikki Carvajal he will be on Fox Business this afternoon. 


 October 7, 2020 15:07

 WH Pool #3 - Gaggle with Morgenstern 
Good afternoon, WH deputy press secretary Brian Morgenstern did a quick gaggle with reporters outside following his appearance on Fox. Peter Navarro also had a hit on cable, but did not stop to talk to the cameras.
In his gaggle with the press, Morgenstern explained contact tracing procedures, said POTUS wants to speak soon but in the meantime has prepared a video and said the WH is prepared in case Trump wants to work out of the Oval Office. He did not say when we might get a briefing from Dr. Conley and did not have an update on when POTUS last tested negative.
Below is a pretty good transcript but as always, double check with audio.
On contact tracing and when the virus entered WH: "So it's person based, and the medical professional handles that case, then interviews name and identifies any close contacts within the 48 hour window of that test with the symptoms being identified, we look back 48 hours to find people who may have been within six feet for at least 15 minutes. And the purpose is to mitigate further transmission of the virus correct, it's not to go back and identify patients zero. I understand that people are very curious about that I'm curious too…And the fact is, it could be any number of sources -- I mean there were, you know, journalists who wear masks a lot… There were a number of guests who have been at the White House who may be tested negative, but then later testified positive. So, it's sort of an unknowable question as to where it entered the environment. But where do we go from here is trying to mitigate further transmission and the White House medical unit with a CDC epidemiologist embedded in it who does contact tracing for the positive cases that they handle and the ones the identify with a positive test…so positive caseloads cases that have been identified by White House medical unit with the CDC helping them, they've completed those. And, but if there are further tests that come up positive that they handle, they'll then handle those as well. for people who have been. Maybe they attended events, a while back maybe nine or 10 days ago here at the White House. Then they test positive nine or 10 days later, their health provider or public health officials who are handling that positive test would then do that 48 hour look on that contact trace."
Why haven't we seen POTUS?: "He wants to speak to the American people and he will do so soon. I don't have an exact time or a definite way he'll do that, but as you've seen there have been Twitter videos that are pretty easy and effective way for him to get out. That's certainly something that we're always considering as putting out another message to the country that way, but I don't have a different method or time for you at this time."
Who has POTUS been with, has he shot any videos, how is he spending his time: "I know they've, they've worked on one [video]. He's spoken, he speaks regularly with the chief, and a number of his senior advisors, Dan Scavino we all know of course he speaks with members on the Hill, leaders on the hill. He wants to make sure that our outstanding nominee for the Supreme Court and her nomination is proceeding expeditiously fairly, thoroughly. But I won't get into any particular private conversations but suffice it to say he's speaking with a number of senior advisors and leaders on the Hill as well."
Preparations for him to return to the Oval?: "So, we have ways for him to do that, we have PPE that we can use. And we can interact with him standing back like you're standing back. And people can wear masks, or goggles or gloves or whatever may be needed we have the CDC guidelines. So, when he's ready and the White House in the West Wing are deep cleaned on a regular basis. So there is a way for him to work out of a variety of rooms safely when he's ready to do that. I think we saw today in the doctor's announcement that he's symptom free. That he has antibodies that they're identifying now it's a great sign."
Are antibodies Regeneron?: "That's a good question I'll have to ask a doctor, but that's really a question for Dr. Conley."
Was he in the Oval yesterday?: "He was not in the Oval Office yesterday, they were precautions set up so that he can do that over the coming days when he was ready to do that, but he was not in the oval yesterday."
When will we hear he tested negative?: "So I think we put out the information that we've got on that that you know. Hope had her positive test Thursday the President announced his positive test very late Thursday and that's the kind of timeline that we've gotten."
Doesn't the WH know when tested negative?: "I don't know when he last tested negative… we're not asking to go back through a bunch of records and look backwards we're looking to contact tracing processes to mitigate further spread of the disease."
Briefing from Dr. Conley?: "He put out his latest assessment in writing, we kind of make our making these decisions, you know, day by day, sort of, just as things go along if we assess circumstances and then determine the best way to communicate."
Reason his vitals not provided?: "I'll look into that but I mean suffice it to say in the President's own words he's feeling great. He's symptom free. And, you know, we hope to have him ABLE TO BE BACK interacting in person, as soon as possible as soon as it's safe. It's, you know, great news that he's now symptom free for a fairly long period of time no fever, and he's feeling well and we're glad to have him back at the White House.
Can you explain why he wants to come to the Oval, doesn't it make sense to isolate?: "Well, we can do it in a safe way we can disinfect regularly. There's certainly ways to do it without compromising anyone. And I think you may know from past research or experts, you know, we're getting to a place where. That's a good thing but certainly doctors are monitoring that you don't want anyone to be in danger but the bottom line is, he could interact with us in the same way. And that's a great thing. I mean, continuing to work hard for the American people and you're not going to do it."
Morgenstern adds: "Does anybody covering the Russia gate stuff is coming out of ODNI? It is a fantastic story it's really fascinating, not fantastic. The fact that the Clinton campaign was actually driving the Russia hoax. It was a very important story so I'd recommend everybody look into it and cover that."
Why wasn't the president being tested daily: "He was tested very regularly as well as the senior staff who are interacting with him on a regular basis." 


 October 7, 2020 15:26

 WH Pool #4 - POTUS in Oval Office 
President Trump is now in the Oval Office. WH spox Morgenstern said he is being briefed in stimulus talks and the hurricane.
A Marine is now standing outside the entrance to the West Wing. A photo is attached. 


 October 7, 2020 17:16

 WH Pool #5 - Judge Amy Coney Barrett update 
"Today, Judge Amy Coney Barrett spoke with Ranking Member Feinstein and Senators Leahy, Durbin, Whitehouse, Klobuchar, and Coons of the Senate Judiciary Committee. In addition to speaking with Senator Booker of the Committee last week. During these calls, the Judge emphasized the importance of judicial independence and spoke about her judicial philosophy and family. Judge Barrett is looking forward to her upcoming hearing on October 12^th." – Judd Deere
+++
Separately, a Marine still stands at guard outside the West Wing office doors. 


 October 7, 2020 18:07

 WH Pool #6 - Lid and Meadows 
The White House called a lid a 6pm.
Chief of staff Mark Meadows is about to be interviewed on what appears to be Fox News. Ben Williamson said Meadows is unable to gaggle after his hit, but we are sticking around to see if he answers any questions.
I'm sure you all have seen the video message POTUS released on his Twitter feed and his tweet about a phone call with UK PM Boris Johnson.
Will keep you posted. 


 October 7, 2020 18:27

 WH Pool #7 - Meadows 
?Chief of staff Mark Meadows, wearing a mask, did a truncated gaggle as he walked back into the West Wing following his Fox News hit.
Meadows said that the video POTUS just released on Twitter was "taken on the South Lawn earlier this afternoon."
When asked about House Speaker Nancy Pelosi's dear colleague letter Meadows replied, "I would just say that based on the facts as I know it don't match up."
On whether he wore PPE in the Oval Office, Meadows said "I'm on PPE anytime any time I get close." Another reporter asked about Dan Scavino, and Meadows said "Dan Scavino, too."
And with that, have a good night. 



  