
    AUSTIN — Gov. Rick Perry today announced key members of his Alabama leadership team. Camaran Williams will serve as the Perry state network coordinator and oversee grassroots efforts throughout the state, and the governor also named several individuals to the Alabama field team.
"I am proud to have Camaran and the rest of the team spearheading our efforts to bring my vision to get America working again to the great state of Alabama," said Gov. Perry. "These individuals will be instrumental in sharing my record of fiscal conservatism and job creation with Alabama voters."
"I am excited to be joining Gov. Perry's campaign team," said Williams. "We look forward to sharing with the people of Alabama his record of commitment to conservative values and his experience creating jobs in the state of Texas."
Williams is a native of Pell City who is currently chairman of the St. Clair County Young Republicans. He served as central Alabama vice chairman of the College Republican Federation of Alabama while studying at the University of Alabama. Williams is a veteran of numerous state, local and national political campaigns.
Gov. Perry also named the following individuals to the Alabama field team:

Clay Loftin, deputy state network coordinator — Former deputy campaign manager of the Bryan Taylor for Senate campaign; former legislative aide to Lt. Gov. Kay Ivey; received bachelor's degree from Auburn University-Montgomery
Stephanie Smith — Member of the Alabama Republican Executive Committee; former deputy finance director for the State of Alabama; former president and CEO of Opelika Chamber of Commerce; received master's degree from University of Alabama-Birmingham and bachelor's degree from Auburn University
Armon Drysdale — Former public relations director of Alabama Students for McCain; former communications staff member of the Byrne for Alabama gubernatorial campaign; political communication consultant to the Bryan Taylor for Senate campaign; received bachelor's degree from University of Alabama
Tyler Evans — Former advance team volunteer of Byrne for Alabama campaign; received bachelor's degree from Auburn University

Nikki Nicholson — Vice chair of Mobile County Young Republicans; social media chair of the Young Republican National Federation; chair of the 2013 Young Republican National Convention; member of the Mobile County Republican Executive Committee; events committee chair of Smart Girl Politics
  