
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Maryland Statewide Steering Committee Co-Chairs. These prominent Republican leaders will help build grassroots support for Governor Romney's campaign in Maryland.
"I am pleased to have two such talented, dedicated Republicans working to make sure voters in Maryland know I am the candidate who can bring conservative change to Washington. We need to keep taxes low, use fiscal responsibility to get spending in check, and make sure our military is strong and prepared to keep our citizens safe," said Governor Romney. "This team will play a prominent role in building grassroots support for my campaign and working to make sure Maryland knows we can meet a new generation of challenges by building a stronger America."
Maryland Statewide Steering Committee Co-Chairs:
Louis Pope: Pope is the National Committeeman for the Maryland Republican Party. He is the President and Owner of Century 21 Trademark Realty, Inc., as well as a partner in Triangle Title Company, and a member of the Republican National Convention Rules Committee. He has served on the Boards of the Greater Washington Capital Area Association of Realtors and the Prince George's County Association of Realtors. Previous positions include: President of the Prince George's Realtors Federal Credit Union, Chairman of the Maryland State Republican Party, Vice Chairman of the Maryland Republican Party, Chairman of the Howard County Republican Party, a member of the 2004 RNC Platform Committee, and a 2005 member of the RNC Delegation to Taiwan and Hong Kong. In 2006, Pope was appointed by President Bust to sit on the Small Business Administration's National Advisory Council. Pope is a four-time delegate to the Republican National Conventions.
Joyce Lyons Terhes: Terhes is currently the National Committeewoman for the Maryland Republican Party. She was previously Chairman of the Maryland Republican Party for nine years. Terhes was elected to two terms on the Calvert County Board of County Commissioners. She is a founding member of both the Maryland Women's Heritage Center and the Republican Women Leaders of Calvert. Terhes has also been a Chairman for the following: Calvert County Bob Ehrlich for Maryland Committee, Michael Steele for Lieutenant Governor Committee, the Platform Sub-committee on Family Values, Education, and Health for the Republican National Platform Committee in 1992, the 25th Biennial Convention for the National Federation of Republican Women in Baltimore, and served as First Vice Chairman for the Maryland Republican Party. Terhes has served as a delegate to the Republican National Convention in 1988, 1992, 1996, and 2004.
  