
    WASHINGTON, D.C.- Rand Paul for President today announces State Senator Don Huffines as its Texas State Chairman. Sen. Huffines will join a growing list of congressional representatives, such as Reps. Mick Mulvaney (R-SC), Raúl Labrador (R- ID), Cynthia Lummis (R-WY), Justin Amash (R-MI) and Thomas Massie (R-KY), and local business leaders and elected officials in support of Senator Rand Paul for President of the United States in 2016.
Don Huffines was born in Dallas Texas and is a fifth generation Texan. Don's grandfather founded Huffines Auto Group in 1924 in the Dallas area which is still family owned and operated. In 1985, Don and his twin brother Phillip started Huffines Communities, one of the largest real estate land development companies in DFW.
Don is serving his first term during the 84th legislative session. A lifelong true conservative Republican, he has served as a delegate to several Republican state conventions and as a delegate to the 2008 and 2012 Republican National Conventions. Don graduated from UT Austin with a Finance Degree in 1981. He and his wife, Mary Catherine, of 26 years have raised four sons and one daughter, active in Boy Scouts of America and all outdoor activities. His trust in Jesus Christ and the love of his family provide Don his daily compass.
The Huffines and Paul families have been friends for decades and have supported each other through many years. Senator Huffines looks forward to working with Senator Paul throughout this election to become the next President of the United States.
"Strong conservative leadership runs in Senator Rand Paul's veins," said Senator Don Huffines. "He is a true constitutional conservative who speaks his mind, and Americans trust him and value his principled, direct leadership. Senator Paul knows that Americans needs limited government, the freedom to pursue happiness, and liberty without oppression, and he is the best candidate to deliver America to even greater glory. He is providing a vision for all Americans of a free nation, with less government, and more liberty. He is unapologetically principled in his beliefs about limiting government and advancing freedom and liberty for Americans, and I am proud to help him become our next President."
Click HERE to listen to Don Huffines endorse Rand Paul for President.
  