
    Richardson releases $60 billion plan for pre-K to college and beyond, details specific cuts to pay for it
MANCHESTER, NH-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson this morning unveiled a comprehensive national education policy at Manchester High School West in Manchester, New Hampshire.
"My Democratic opponents have been cautious in confronting President Bush on this issue," Richardson said. "Just as they trusted him on the Iraq war and the Patriot Act, they trusted him on No Child Left Behind. Now some say fix it; others say tweak it. Senator Clinton says reform it. I have two words for No Child Left Behind: scrap it. The key to a good education is not narrow testing or Washington wisdom. The key is a good teacher in every classroom. When I am President, teachers will have a national average starting salary of $40,000. I also vow to hire 100,000 new math and science teachers."
The $60 billion plan covers the entire American education system, from pre-K to college and beyond.
"As President, I will provide universal access to quality pre-K programs to all four-year-olds," Richardson said. "I also will fund Head Start fully. The benefits of early education are clear and extensive. We put in place a full-day kindergarten program and initiated statewide pre-K for every four-year-old in New Mexico."
Richardson vowed that he would put the arts back in America's schools.
"Arts education is not a silver bullet, but it is a lighted bridge," Richardson said. "Students who engage in the arts are more likely to get involved in community and charitable work. These students also perform better in the classroom. I will substantially increase investment in arts-in-education programs. I will pay for musical instruments and music teachers in underserved communities around the country. The federal government will offer extra matching funds to states that draw up their own comprehensive art programs."
Richardson also put forward a national service program that would help young Americans pay for college.
"As President, I will create a national service program that pays for two years of college in return for one year of service," Richardson said. "We need more college graduates, and we need more men and women who are willing to serve their fellow citizens. The spirit of service that fought the Nazis in the forties and sustained the Peace Corps in the sixties still is alive and well in America today."
Richardson specifically detailed how the plan would be funded and challenged his Democratic opponents to do the same.
"The vision I have outlined is bold and comprehensive," Richardson said. "It also is expensive. Unlike the timid plans of others, mine is a $60 billion investment in our nation's future. To those who ask how we can afford it, let me be specific. I will cut billions of dollars in loan subsidies to private banks and lenders. Furthermore, last week I outlined a detailed plan for defense modernization that saves $57 billion by cutting Pentagon waste and outdated, unnecessary weapons systems, many of which were designed for the Cold War.
"I issue a challenge to each of my opponents: be bold and be specific. Follow my lead and tell America how you will make our education system the greatest in the world."
Read the full text of Governor Richardson's speech on education here.
Read the Executive Summary of Governor Richardson's education plan here.
  