
    "Terrorism is a direct challenge to APEC's goals of free, open and prosperous economies and an affront to the fundamental values that APEC members share. We are united in our determination to end the threat that terrorism poses to our shared goals and committed to accelerate our progress towards the anti-terror goals and programs set forth last year in Shanghai."
APEC Leaders' Statement on Fighting Terrorism and Promoting Growth
October 26, 2002
Presidential Action


President Bush obtained agreement today on a U.S.-driven Leaders' "Statement on Fighting Terrorism and Promoting Growth" that contains specific commitments to secure key Pacific Rim infrastructure -- transport, finance and communications -- from exploitation or attack by terrorists.



The United States has also expanded the bilateral Container Security Initiative (CSI), which revolutionizes border management through pre-screening of cargo containers, to key APEC megaports in Canada, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore, and now China.

APEC PLAN OF ACTION
In a show of unity by economies representing 60 percent of global GDP and one quarter of the world's Muslim population, APEC Leaders agreed on a U.S.-proposed plan to protect key transport, finance and information systems from terrorists by enhancing secure trade, choking off terrorist financing, and promoting cyber security. This plan complements the "Smart Border" programs President Bush has launched with Mexico and Canada.
Enhancing Secure Trade in the APEC Region ("STAR"): APEC economies account for 21 of the world's top seaports, and 23 of the world's busiest airports. Today, APEC members committed to accelerated action on pre-screening people and cargo, increasing security on ships and planes, and enhancing security in airports and seaports. These commitments include:


Collection and transmission of advance passenger information and implementation of biometrics;



Identification and pre-screening of high-risk containers, and implementation of common electronic customs standards by 2005;



Accelerated implementation by April 2003 of new standards for reinforced cockpit doors and airport security audits; and



Accelerated installation by December 2004 of automatic identification systems on certain ships, and development of port and ship security plans by July 2004.

These APEC-wide efforts to strengthen transport security are complemented by the U.S. bilateral Container Security Initiative (CSI), which revolutionizes border management through pre-screening of cargo containers. The CSI has been expanded to include key APEC megaports in Canada, Hong Kong, Japan, and Singapore. Earlier this week the United States announced that China had become the newest CSI participant.
Choking off Terrorist Financing: APEC Leaders agreed to work together to deny terrorists access to the global financial system, and to use the money trail to locate and apprehend terrorists. Specifically, the APEC Leaders agreed to:


Fully implement key U.N. and other international instruments in order to promote joint identification of regional terrorist targets;



Promote better monitoring of alternative remittance systems and charities to prevent terrorist misuse -- the first time leaders of any multilateral group have collectively called for action on this issue; and



Ensure that members without Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs) take action to establish them, and all members take steps to increase information sharing between FIUs , before the next Leaders Meeting.

Promoting Cyber Security: APEC members now account for over 60 percent of the world's Internet users, and 14 of the world's 20 largest Internet Service Providers. The APEC Leaders' Statement calls on APEC members, by the time of the next Summit, to:


Enact comprehensive cyber security laws, on par with existing international standards, particularly the Council of Europe Cybercrime Convention;



Identify or create national cybercrime units and international high-technology assistance contact points; and



Establish institutions, such as Computer Emergency Response Teams, that exchange threat and vulnerability assessments and information.

  