
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Progress in medical science and the generally rising level of health care available from birth onwards have been among our Nation's greatest achievements in this century. As a result, more people are living to an old age than ever before.
The corollary to this achievement is an increase in the incidence of chronic illnesses affecting people as they age. Those who suffer these illnesses may require care over a long period of time, a fact which tests our Nation's ability to provide older Americans the kind of care that will allow them to continue to live independently in their communities.
The rapid growth of adult day care centers is a reflection of increasing community interest in developing long-term alternatives in community settings. Adult day care centers provide comprehensive personal, medical, and therapeutic help and also assist older people and the handicapped in achieving maximum levels of independence and social interaction. They provide much needed support for families as they care for their loved ones. Many adult day care centers throughout the country have recognized the vital needs of older people and the desire that many of them have to remain in their own homes as long as possible.
To increase public awareness of the importance of these centers, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 505, has designated the week beginning September 23, 1984, as "National Adult Day Care Center Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 23, 1984, as National Adult Day Care Center Week.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  