
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Pease (D) Ohio and 19 others)
If H.R. 4939 were presented to the President, his senior advisers would recommend that he veto it. H.R. 4939, as passed by the House, significantly resticts the President's flexibility to recommend extension of MFN trade status to China in 1991. The bill requires that before the President can recommend extending MFN, he must certify that the Chinese government has:

—  accounted for any detained or accused citizens and released those imprisoned because of their actions at Tiananmen Square;
—  implemented and faithfully executed measures that terminate specified repressive practices; and
—  adhered to the 1984 Joint Declaration on Hong Kong. 
In May, the President determined that China met the requirements of the Jackson-Vanik amendment and that continuing MFN would serve broad U. S. economic and foreign policy interests. The Administration shares the sponsors' desire to promote human rights in China but believes this can be done best by keeping China's economy open to the outside world and maintaining the broadest possible range of people-to-people contacts. Trade and investment provide a vital link with those Chinese who want positive change.
Our continued economic involvement with China has encouraged important positive steps. The Chinese authorities have released almost 900 political prisoners this year and, following the President's decision to renew China's MFN status, have permitted Fang Lizhi and his family to depart the country. Beijing has supported all nine UN Security Council resolutions on the Persian Gulf crisis and acted decisively to enforce the UN-approved trade embargo. We continue to need China's support in the Persian Gulf Crisis. China's active intervention was crucial for achieving the latest breakthrough toward a peaceful settlement in Cambodia.
The United States cannot return to doing business as usual with China until a better human rights condition exists there. The Administration will continue to press for the release of the estimated 300-400 political detainees resulting from the brutal suppression of the prodemocracy movement of June 1989. But a sound working relationship with China is still necessary so that issues of vital concern to us can be addressed.
  