
    The far-left agenda of Kamala Harris and Joe Biden was on full display. 
Kamala Harris was the clear loser of tonight's vice presidential debate. Her far-left agenda was on full display, even as she tried to dodge basic questions. 

Megan McArdle, Washington Post: "Kamala Harris is... not a great debater."
Alice Steward, CNN: "Sen. Harris can shake her head all she wants - but GovTrack did name her "the most liberal compared to all Senators." #VPDebate"
Cenk Uygur, The Young Turks: "Good news for progressives- apparently @SenKamalaHarris is a super weak debater. Should be easy to take her on during 2024 primaries and crush her in those debates. She blew a golden opportunity to hand Mike Pence his ass. She barely touched Trump in a 90 minute debate. #VPDebate"
Musadiq Bidar, CBS News: "Pence tells Harris she has repeatedly said she would ban fracking. Last September during a CNN Town Hall @KamalaHarris said she is in favor of banning fracking. "There is no question I'm in favor of banning fracking," Harris said a year ago."
José Díaz-Briseño, Mexico Today: "Pence has a point: Not only Kamala Harris was one of few Senators voting NAY on USMCA but she was the only Senator from a US/Mexico border state who didn't support the deal. All other US/Mexico border state Senate Dems (Feinstein, Sinema, Udall, Heinrich) voted YEA"
Noah Rothman, MSNBC: "BTW, Harris said that "Trump called it a hoax," in which the "it" to which she referred was the COVID pandemic. That is also false."
David Axelrod, former Obama adviser: Harris "should've had a better answer than the non-answer that she gave" on packing the Supreme Court.
Kasie Hunt, NBC News: VP Pence "actually is the one who asked Kamala Harris about what's called packing the court... and Kamala Harris wouldn't answer that question. She sort of deflected instead."
Jim Geraghty, National Review: "Asked a really open-ended and important question about what our relationship with China would be like under a Biden presidency, Kamala Harris veers off into the pandemic criticism we heard 20 minutes ago."
Jake Tapper, CNN: "Harris wouldn't answer the question about the court packing, and that's significant, and Biden and Harris should answer it."
Saager Enjeti, The Hill TV: "This Kamala Harris answer on China is literally incomprehensible and has NOTHING to do with China"
Frank Luntz, pollster: "The complaint about Kamala Harris was that she was abrasive and condescending... If this is a battle over style and substance, which is often the case with undecided voters ... this was Mike Pence's night."
Nikole Killion, CBS News: "[Senator Harris] did not answer the question with regard to the issue of court packing. That is something that we saw in last week's debate as well... this is actually something that I put to her chief of staff earlier today if we would get a clear answer from the senator on this, and clearly she did not."

Vice President Pence was the overwhelming winner of tonight's debate. He strongly and straightforwardly articulated the Trump-Pence accomplishments and made the case for four more years of their America First policies.

Norah O'Donnell, CBS News: "Mike Pence was masterful... And many times, it seemed like Kamala was on defense."
Sara Fagen, ABC News: "Vice President Pence "was very strong on the economy. He really had Kamala Harris on the defense, specifically on the Green New Deal and the impact that would have on jobs and taxes. So I thought he did a great job."
Linsey Davis, ABC News: "It was Pence who actually really held [Kamala Harris'] feet to the fire. At one point he said, "I just want the record to reflect she never answered the question." He was referring, of course, to the Supreme Court."
Josh Hammer, Newsweek: "This is one of the most one-sided political debates I can recall watching. Pence is in his element and on cruise control."
James Vick, MMA fighter: "Pence won easily."
T.J. Moe, podcast host: "I know VP debates don't typically sway any votes, but Pence is absolutely wrecking shop tonight. Clear, knows the points he can win and is driving them home with authority. Harris looks wildly uncomfortable."
Rich Lowry, National Review: "Pence wins economic exchange going away"
Ari Fleischer: "Pence just cleaned Biden's clock on foreign policy, from Jerusalem to ISIS to NATO to the Iran deal."
Josh Rogin, CNN: "Pence: "China is to blame for the coronavirus." Fact check: True"
Guy Benson, Townhall: "Pence just pressed a member of the Biden-Harris ticket on court-packing harder & more clearly than any journalist has to date."

Joe Biden and Kamala Harris extreme, job-killing agenda lost the argument, just as they will lose on November 3.
  