
    Memorandum for the Special Representative for Trade NegotiationsSubject: Determination under Sections 406 and 202 of the Trade Act; Clothespins from the People's Republic of China
Pursuant to sections 406(b) and 202 of the Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618), I have determined the action I will take with respect to the report of the United States International Trade Commission (USITC), transmitted to me on August 3, 1978, concerning the results of its investigation of a petition for import relief filed by the Clothespin and Veneer Products Association on behalf of the domestic industry producing clothespins provided for in items 790.05, 790.07 and 790.08 of the Tariff Schedules of the United States.
After considering all relevant aspects of the case, including those considerations set forth in section 202(c) of the Trade Act of 1974, I have determined that provision of import relief is not in the national economic interest.
The imposition of import relief would not be an effective means to promote adjustment in the domestic industry. While imports from the PRC have become an increasingly important component of U.S. imports, other sources still accounted for seventy-three percent of U.S. imports in 1977. Foreign sources, other than the PRC, are able to supply clothespins to the U.S. market at prices significantly below the prices charged by U.S. producers. Moreover, existing foreign capacity would not be a limitation on foreign producer ability to increase shipments to the U.S. Thus, third country suppliers would likely fill any excess U.S. demand resulting from a limitation of any kind on imports of clothespins from the PRC.
In addition, it should be noted that the USITC has instituted an investigation under section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 to determine whether clothespins from all foreign suppliers are being imported into the United States in such quantities as to be a substantial cause of serious injury, or threat thereof, to the domestic industry. A determination on this case by the USITC is due by November 21, 1978. The import problems facing the domestic clothespin industry will be considered further within the context of this pending escape clause case.
This determination is to be published in the FEDERAL REGISTER.
JIMMY CARTER
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 10:57 a.m., October 2, 1978]
  