
    Pool Reports by Philip Wegmann, RealClearPolitics



Sent:
Reports:




 October 20, 2020 09:53

 In-Town Pool Report #1: Good Morning 
The president began his day with an interview on "Fox and Friends." Mine started with a COVID-test. It is Tuesday and gloomy. I am your in-town print pool reporter. Good morning.
Things were bustling in-lower press as the White House prepared for a Trump town hall in the Rose Garden. Sinclair will moderate the discussion which is closed press and begins at 3:00 pm. The president and First Lady will depart later for a rally in Erie, Pennsylvania, which begins at 7:00 pm. There are no other events on his schedule.
Best, 


 October 20, 2020 12:10

 In-Town Pool Report #2: Lunch Lid Until 1:00 
The White House called a lunch lid until 1:00.
Best, 


 October 20, 2020 15:29

 In-Town Pool Report #3: McEnany Gaggle 
A few minutes after a Fox News interview, the press secretary stopped to chat with reporters in the White House driveway. She was cheerful but brief.
Speaker Pelosi and Treasury Sec. Mnuchin reportedly had a call scheduled around that time about another COVID relief package. "We certainly hope to see progress," McEnany said. "The American people deserve it."
"One of the under-reported issues" in the ongoing negotiations, she continued, was that Pelosi wanted to include "stimulus checks for illegal immigrants." If a deal is reached, she said that relief should "focus on the American people and the citizens of this country."
Asked if Trump had met with the COVID Task Force, McEnany said that "the president is routinely updated." The vice president leads that group, and Pence was with Trump this morning. "He gets his updates that way," she explained.
McEnany did not have anything new to add about reports that the United States and Russia were nearing an extension of the START nuclear deal. She also didn't elaborate when asked about the Department of Justice bringing a lawsuit against Google. 


 October 20, 2020 18:18

 In-Town Pool Report #4: WH Departure 
?The president walked slowly from the Oval Office to Marine One, pausing briefly to wave to a crowd of waiting supporters.
He didn't respond to shouted questions.
Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany and Senior Trump Advisor Stephen Miller later followed.
Marine One lifted off from the White House at 6:15. 


 October 20, 2020 22:12

 In-Town Pool Report #5: WH Arrival & Lid 
?Marine One touched down, and the president walked into the White House about five minutes after 10:00.
He waved to the press and gave a thumbs up and did not take questions.
Kayleigh McEnany and Stephen Miller and Dan Scavino filed into the White House after him.
There is now a travel/photo lid. Goodnight. 




Pool Reports below by Hunter Walker, Yahoo News



Sent:
Reports:




 October 20, 2020 18:30

 Travel Pool Report # 1 - JBA to PA 
Marine One was wheels down at Joint Base Andrews at about 6:23 pm. The helicopter taxied down the tarmac and came to a stop nearby Air Force One roughly two minutes later.
President Trump disembarked Marine One at 6:27 pm. He gave a salute to the Marines on the tarmac and made his way towards Air Force One.
POTUS gave a wave and thumbs up to the reporters outside the plane before walking up the jetway and boarding one minute later.
Trump was followed by staff including Kayleigh McEnany, Stephen Miller, Mark Meadows, and Dan Scavino. None of the aforementioned staffers or the president were wearing masks.
The plane will be wheels up momentarily and the flight to Pennsylvania's Erie International Airport is scheduled to take about one hour and five minutes.
We are on the smaller Air Force One (tail number 90017) with all the connectivity issues that come with that. Your pooler will not be able to send further updates en route. See you when we land. 


 October 20, 2020 19:39

 Travel Pool #2 - Wheels Down In Erie 
?Air Force One was wheels down at Erie International Alrport at about 7:27 pm after an uneventful flight through a beautiful sunset. There were no notable visitors to the press cabin.
We are currently taxiing along the tarmac. 


 October 20, 2020 19:42

 Travel Pool #3 - At the rally 
?Air Force One pulled came to a stop at about 7:35 pm after rolling past a large crowd filled with the twinkling lights of cell phone cameras.
Pool disembarked two minutes later and is making our way to the venue as James Brown and the Famous Flames' "Please Please Please" played on the speakers surrounding the large crowd arrayed across from the plane.
We arrived ahead of the president who will presumably be making an entrance shortly. The crowd is currently being serenaded with the 1977 Queen anthem "We Are The Champions." 


 October 20, 2020 19:48

 Travel Pool #4 - Here's POTUS 
?The president was announced at 7:44 pm and made his way to the stage to the strains of Lee Greenwood's "God Bless the USA" and repeated chants of "Four more years!" from the crowd.
POTUS took the stage at 7:46 pm and began reminiscing about his 2016 victory in Pennsylvania.
This speech is being broadcast live so please refer to the video feed of your choice for quotes.
It is a chily and damp 52 degrees here in Erie. 


 October 20, 2020 20:09

 Travel Pool #5 - "Crooked Hillary" strikes again 
?At about 8:06 pm President Trump stopped speaking and pointed to his microphone.
Someone in the crowd shouted "Fake news turn it back on!"
The microphone, which is not controlled by the press, was back on in about a minute and the president quipped that the brief outage was likely caused by "Crooked Hillary."
He's back to his speech now. 


 October 20, 2020

[APP Note: Report #6 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 October 20, 2020 21:48

 Travel Pool #7- Back at JBA 
?Air Force One was wheels down at JBA at 9:40 pm. The plane came to a stop on the tarmac five minutes later.
During the flight, the pool enjoyed Fox News' live footage of the front of Joe Biden's darkened house. The pool could see Mark Meadows, Kayleigh McEnany, Jason Miller, Dan Scavino, and Bill Stepien having a conversation around the table in the conference room ahead of the press cabin.
No one came to visit us. 


 October 20, 2020 21:58

 Travel Pool #8 - Marine One is on the move 
?President Trump disembarked Air Force One at 9:49 pm.
He gestured towards the reporters on the tarmac, but did not come speak to us.
Trump boarded Marine One at approximately 9:50 pm.
Marine One began rolling at 9:53 and was wheels up two minutes later.
Your pooler is now handing off to the in town crew.
Lay me down in sheets of linen. You had a busy day today. 



  