
    While President Obama's "Hodgepodge" Hasn't Worked, Mitt Romney Will Put America On A Path Toward Energy Independence
Mitt Romney Has An Energy Reform Plan That Will Create Millions Of Jobs And Put The Nation On A Course To Energy Independence:
Mitt Romney Will Increase Domestic Production, Fund Research, Remove Regulatory Barriers, And Increase Partnership With Our North American Allies — Establishing A Course To Energy Independence By 2020. "Mitt Romney will make America an energy superpower, rapidly and responsibly increasing our own production and partnering with our allies Canada and Mexico to achieve energy independence on this continent by 2020. This will require genuine support for increased energy production, a more rational approach to regulation, and a government that facilitates private-sector-led development of new energy technologies by focusing on funding research and removing barriers, rather than chasing fads and picking winners and losers." (Romney for President Website, 10/16/12)
Mitt Romney Will Approve The Keystone XL Pipeline "On Day One" Of His Term In Office. "I will permit access to our resources in the Gulf of Mexico, the Outer Continental Shelf, western lands and the Alaska National Wildlife Refuge. I also will partner closely with our neighbors. Canada and Mexico have extraordinary resources of their own that can provide secure, reliable supplies for our economy. This starts with my approval of the Keystone XL pipeline on Day One." (Mitt Romney, Op-Ed, "U.S. Can Be Energy Superpower," The Columbus Dispatch, 3/5/12)
President Obama's So-Called Energy Achievements Are "Not Tethered To Anything" He Has Done — And He's Actively Blocked The Keystone Pipeline:
A Decrease In Dependence On Foreign Oil Is "Not Tethered To Anything Obama Has Done." "The Obama ad that quickly slips in claims that slickly appear to be the result of Obama's policies, though the ad does not directly make that claim—a reference to 2.7 million clean-energy jobs, a note that for the first time in 13 years foreign oil imports are below 50 percent. Those figures are correct, but they are also not tethered to anything Obama has done. The report that mentioned the 2.7 million jobs simply said that is how many potentially exist." (The Washington Post, 1/19/12)
"The Main Reason Was 'A Significant Contraction In Consumption' Because Of The Poor Economy..." "Meanwhile, the Energy Department cited a host of reasons why foreign oil imports have declined, noting the main reason was 'a significant contraction in consumption' because of the poor economy and changes in efficiency that began 'two years before the 2008 crisis' — ie, before Obama took office." (The Washington Post, 1/19/12)
President Obama "Sacrificed A Rich Source Of Petroleum" And Denied A Permit To Build The Keystone Pipeline. "The Obama administration announced Wednesday that it will deny a permit to build the Keystone XL pipeline, an important link between a U.S. market that's thirsty for energy and a rich source of petroleum in nice, stable, neighborly Canada." (Chicago Tribune, 1/19/12)
President Obama "Continues To Stand In The Way Of The Keystone XL Pipeline" — Which Is Projected To Create Thousands Of Jobs.  "President Obama continues to stand in the way of the Keystone XL pipeline, though increasingly he's standing alone. ... Big Labor and Western Governors such as Montana Democrat Brian Schweitzer support the Keystone for the thousands of jobs it will create, which is adding to the pressure on Capitol Hill Democrats." (The Wall Street Journal, 4/20/12)
The U.S. Is Importing 8% More Oil From Saudi Arabia Than When President Obama Took Office — And 11% More Over The Last Year. (U.S. Energy Information Administration, 9/30/12)
As Gas Prices Continue To Climb, Even President Obama Himself Admits He Doesn't Have A Coherent Energy Policy:
Since President Obama Took Office, Gas Prices Have More Than Doubled From $1.85 Per Gallon To $3.82 Per Gallon. (U.S. Energy Information Agency, 10/16/12)
President Obama: "Our Energy Policy Still Is Just A Hodgepodge." OBAMA: "Our energy policy still is just a hodgepodge, and for all the progress we've made, we're not where we need to be in making sure that this is an energy-efficient economy that is running on all cylinders." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Miami, FL, 6/13/11)
What Can We Expect If President Obama Wins Another Term? A Job-Destroying Cap-And-Trade Plan:
President Obama "Has Said That The Most Important Policy He Could Address In His Second Term Is Climate Change." "Obama has an ambitious second-term agenda, which, at least in broad ways, his campaign is beginning to highlight. The President has said that the most important policy he could address in his second term is climate change..." (The New Yorker, 6/11/12)
President Obama's Previous Attempts At Cap-And-Trade Would Have Enacted "The Biggest Tax In American History." "House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has put cap-and-trade legislation on a forced march through the House, and the bill may get a full vote as early as Friday. It looks as if the Democrats will have to destroy the discipline of economics to get it done. ... Americans should know that those Members who vote for this climate bill are voting for what is likely to be the biggest tax in American history. Even Democrats can't repeal that reality." (The Wall Street Journal, 6/26/09)
  