
    Discusses new proposals to fundamentally reform American use of security contractors in Iraq
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, in a radio address airing on Air America Radio, Senator John Edwards previewed his new proposals to fundamentally reform American oversight and use of security contractors in Iraq. Edwards also noted how he differs from Senator Clinton on leaving combat troops in Iraq and on giving President Bush the authority to escalate conflict with Iran.
The Air America Presidential Project was created by Richard Greene, host of the new Air America weekday evening show Clout!, to encourage campaign finance reform. The network is allowing each presidential candidate to use free air time in early October to discuss their candidacies with Air America's national audience.
Edwards' radio address will be broadcast periodically throughout the day. Air America Radio is heard on 60 affiliates nationwide, including XM satellite radio. Edwards' address is also available as a podcast on the Air America website: http://www.airamerica.com/clout/node/61.
A full transcript of Edwards' address is included below:
"One of the most important issues facing this great nation is the war in Iraq that seems to have no end. I believe we must commit to actually ending the war in Iraq and reject the incremental triangulation we see inside the Beltway. Just last Sunday, Senator Clinton said that she would continue to conduct combat missions in Iraq. I don't agree with her position. I believe if you're not ending combat operations, you're not ending the war.
"My position on the Iraq war is very clear. For over a year, I have called for an immediate withdrawal of 40,000 to 50,000 troops—to jumpstart the comprehensive political solution that will end the violence in Iraq and will allow a complete withdrawal of all combat troops within 9 to 10 months. But while we need to make sure our next president is committed to actually ending the war in Iraq, our brave troops serving in Iraq should not have to wait till 2009.
"The American people voted for change last November and 11 months later we still have the status quo. Congress must be strong enough to stand up to President Bush and must pass a funding bill with a timetable for withdrawal. If the president vetoes that bill, Congress must send it back, again and again, as many times as it takes for the president to finally get the message that he can't defy the will of the American people. Every member of Congress who believes this war must end has the moral responsibility to use every tool available to them, including a filibuster, to send the president one simple message: No timeline, no funding. No excuses.
"I also believe it is time, once and for all, to end the Bush Administration's outsourcing of the Iraq war to security contractors. As the recent shootings of Iraqi civilians by Blackwater contractors in Baghdad reminds us, it is time we return to a military that responds to the will of the American people rather than outsourcing our military responsibilities to corporate contractors. Today, I will be unveiling a series of proposals that will fundamentally reform our system for security contractors and end the outsourcing of the Iraq war and any war.
"Finally, as I have said before, I believe the Iraq war was mistake and we cannot risk repeating this again in Iran. I voted for the war in Iraq, and I accept responsibility for my vote. It was wrong. Senator Clinton however seems to have learned a different lesson from her vote supporting the war. Senator Clinton recently voted to give President Bush the authority to take the first steps on the road to war with Iran. The truth is that I've learned from my mistakes. That you cannot give president bush even the first step in the authority to go to war because he cannot be trusted.
"So now, as you look forward to the coming election, I believe that now is the moment for the Democratic Party and the next president to offer the American people real change – and real change begins by ending the war in Iraq for good and denying President Bush the authority to start another war with Iran. I believe that is right course for America to take. And, with your support, we can and will change America for the better."

  