
    A Tale of Three Septembers
Newt Gingrich released the following statement reacting to the September jobs report:
"Government does not create jobs. The American people create jobs.
"Ronald Reagan understood this. In September 1983, his third September in office, the American people created 1.1 million new jobs, the largest single month jobs boom since World War II. Reagan had defied the experts and stuck to his bold agenda of tax and regulatory reform, and by the fall of 1983, America had emerged from recession stronger, more dynamic, and more productive than ever.
"When I was Speaker, the House Republicans understood this. In September 1997, our third September in office, the American people created 508,000 new jobs -- the highest single-month total since Reagan 14 years before. In August, we had passed the largest capital gains tax cut in history, and entrepreneurs responded by hiring a half-million Americans.
"Last Friday marked the end of Barack Obama's third September in office. He spent much of it trying to double-down on his jobs policies that have already failed: Government stimulus, White House-directed investments, wealth redistribution. This morning we learned that job-creators gave him yet another vote of no confidence, and hired only 103,000 Americans – below the job creation rate required to merely keep up with population growth. 25.8 million Americans remain unemployed or underemployed. The Obama Depression continues.
"My 21st Century Contract with America includes a bold jobs and prosperity plan based off the principles which worked under Reagan's presidency and my Speakership. Read it at www.newt.org/contract.
"I encourage Congress to pass and President Obama to sign these tax cut, deregulatory, strong dollar, and pro American energy proposals now so a real economic recovery can begin. As President I will work tirelessly to pass the entire 21st Century Contract with America so we can return to robust job creation, balanced budgets and constitutional, limited government."

  