
    Richardson endorsed by key political, community, union, and tribal leaders from around the country
SANTA FE, NM-- The Richardson for President campaign today announced endorsements from a number of high-profile political, community, union, and tribal leaders from around the United States.
"I am proud to have the endorsements of these influential leaders," Democratic Presidential candidate Richardson said. "These are people from all walks of life living across the United States, and I am excited that they have united behind my campaign. Together, we are going to win the White House and end the war in Iraq."
Today's endorsers hail from thirteen states, representing every region of the United States. They include state senators, assemblymen, and representatives, tribal chairs, union presidents, and other influential community leaders.
New Mexico Governor Richardson, backed by a solid third quarter fundraising total, is the only Democratic candidate to have shown a steady increase in support in recent months. In polling in the early states of Iowa and New Hampshire, Richardson consistently has registered double-digit support. A new Strategic Vision poll in Iowa puts Governor Richardson at thirteen percent, within striking distance of the leading candidates with over three months remaining before the votes are cast.
"Governor Bill Richardson has been a strong voice for change in this Presidential campaign, and he has a long record of experience to back it up," California State Senator Alex Padilla said. "It is an honor to join his campaign. When he becomes President, I am confident that Bill Richardson will get all of our troops out of Iraq and extend access to quality, affordable health care to every American."
Below is a list of the diverse group of leaders who today endorsed Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson, organized by state:
CALIFORNIA
Felipe Fuentes, State Assemblyman
Jose Huizar, Los Angeles City Councilman
Alex Padilla, State Senator
COLORADO
Alice Borodkin, State Representative
Debbie Marquez, Democratic National Committee member
Dr. Richard Martinez, Former Pueblo County Commissioner
Buffie McFadyen, State Representative
Val Vigil, Former State Representative          
GEORGIA
Tommy Coleman, former Mayor of Albany and former Executive Director of the Democratic Party of Georgia
KANSAS
David Haley, State Senator
Jim McClinton, Former Mayor of Topeka
Louis Ruiz, State Representative
MAINE
John Connors, President- Labor Council for Latino American Advancement
Boyd Marley, State Representative
MARYLAND
Bobby Zirkin, State Representative
MASSACHUSETTS
Matthew Albanese, Bridgewater Selectman
MINNESOTA
Irene Auginaush, White Earth Tribal Councilwoman
Kevin Leecy, Bois Forte Tribal Chairman
NEVADA
Alvin Moyle, Fallon Paiute-Shoshone Tribal Chair
PENNSYLVANIA
Juan Ramos, Philadelphia City Councilman
TENNESSEE
Dave Cooley, Former Deputy Governor
Zoyle Jones, President- Tennessee State Employees Association
Tommy Kilby, State Senator
Bill Mason, Former Senior Staffer to Vice President Al Gore
Anna Belle Clement O'Brien, former State Representative, former State Senator, and sister of former Governor Frank Clement
Kevin Sharp, Civil Rights Lawyer
VERMONT
Jim Condon, State Representative
WASHINGTON
Don Barlow, State Representative
Rosalinda Guillen, Hispanic/Latino Caucus Chair
WYOMING
Floyd Esquibel, State Representative
Ivan Posey, Eastern Shoshone Tribal Chair
  