
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted October 5
David M. Walker,
of Georgia, to be Comptroller General of the United States for a term of 15 years, vice Charles A. Bowsher, term expired.
Stephen Hadley,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 1999, vice Mary Louise Smith, term expired.
Stephen Hadley,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2003 (reappointment).
Zalmay Khalilzad,
of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the U.S. Institute of Peace for a term expiring January 19, 2001, vice Christopher H. Phillips, resigned.
John A. Moran,
of Virginia, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2001, vice Ming Hsu, term expired.
Norman A. Mordue,
of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Rosemary S. Pooler, elevated.
Andrea Kidd Taylor,
of Michigan, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years (new position).
John F. Walsh,
of Connecticut, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2006, vice Bert H. Mackie, term expired. Withdrawn October 5
Mari Carmen Aponte,
of Puerto Rico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Dominican Republic, which was submitted to the Senate on April 28, 1998.
Gus A. Owen,
of California, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2002 (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on February 2, 1998. Submitted October 6
Kay Kelley Arnold,
of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2004, vice Neil H. Offen, term expired.
Donnie R. Marshall,
of Texas, to be Deputy Administrator of Drug Enforcement, vice Stephen H. Greene.
Jose Antonio Perez,
of California, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of California for the term of 4 years, vice Steven Simpson Gregg. Submitted October 7
Harold J. Creel, Jr.,
of South Carolina, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2004 (reappointment).
Robert W. Perciasepe,
of Maryland, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (reappointment). Submitted October 8
John A. Moran,
of Virginia, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2000, vice Joe Scroggins, Jr., term expired.
Timothy Fields, Jr.,
of Virginia, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Elliott Pearson Laws, resigned.
Kenneth M. Bresnahan,
of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Labor, vice Edmundo A. Gonzales, resigned.
Timothy F. Geithner,
of New York, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice David A. Lipton. Gary Gensler,
of Maryland, to be an Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice John D. Hawke, Jr.
Edwin M. Truman,
of Maryland, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Timothy F. Geithner. Withdrawn October 8
John A. Moran,
of Virginia, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for the term expiring June 30, 2001, vice Ming Hsu, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on October 5, 1998. Submitted October 9
Frank J. Guarini,
of New Jersey, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 52d Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Arthur J. Naparstek,
of Ohio, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service for a term expiring October 6, 2003 (reappointment).
James M. Simon, Jr.,
of Alabama, to be Assistant Director of Central Intelligence for Administration (new position).
Jack J. Spitzer,
of Washington, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 52d Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
  