
    Today, Women for Biden hosted its final weekly national call before the November 3 election and recognized Latina Equal Pay Day. The virtual event featured Los Angeles County Supervisor Hilda Solis, Executive Director of Care in Action Jess Morales Rocketo, and former Executive Director for the White House Council on Women and Girls during the Obama-Biden Administration Tina Tchen. 
Watch the conversation in full HERE.
Supervisor Hilda Solis said: "Joe Biden said today that Latinas are the hearts of our families and our communities… They deserve to be paid well and not underpaid… Millions of women, especially Latinas, are the ones that are bearing the brunt of this pandemic because we don't have somebody at the top who knows how to manage a crisis, and we cannot stand for that… All women across the board deserve so much better. That's why we have to work so hard to get the vote out. And when women speak, women move families, and women can move their partners, their friends, and everyone else. And I have to tell you, I know Joe Biden is going to be with us -- not just with Latinas, but all women of color and all women, period… I'm so proud of what he and Kamala will bring and restore to our country."
Jess Morales Rocketto spoke of the challenges facing Latinas, which have worsened during this pandemic, and the difficult choices they are being forced to make: "This is an emergency… the more and more we head into the winter, the worse and worse it is going to get for families. This is urgent. Part of why we need to elect Joe Biden is that people need relief urgently. Latinas need relief urgently."
Tina Tchen discussed the caregiving crisis affecting women and families: "We are now seeing a caregiving crisis… women are having to leave the workforce. We are about to undo generations of the expansion of women in the labor force… more Latinas left the workforce than the entire number of men left the workforce in September... One of the first things I know that a Biden-Harris Administration is going to address is this caregiving crisis, is how we are going to give caregivers a fair wage, and make sure that working women and people have the caregiving support they need to get back to work."
The call concluded with a grassroots mobilization of volunteers to make calls to voters in Wisconsin.
In addition to today's call, Vice President Biden released a statement on Latina Equal Pay Day, which you can find here. Congresswomen Sylvia Garcia, Veronica Escobar, and Debbie Mucarsel-Powell penned an op-ed, which you can read in English here and Spanish here.
  