
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

United Nations Day is an occasion to reaffirm our devotion to the principles of the United Nations Charter and to celebrate mankind's progress toward the kind of world the framers of that Charter longed for and planned for in the aftermath of the Second World War. That world is one founded upon universal and reciprocal respect for human rights and the peaceful resolution of differences.
When we reflect on the record of the world's governments in this twentieth century in bringing to fruition mankind's dreams of peace, human rights, freedom, and justice, we can only conclude that much remains to be done. Our century has witnessed the rise of totalitarian systems, the two world wars, mass annihilations, incessant local and regional conflicts, and systematic violations of human rights. Mankind clearly stands in need of help in learning to live in peace and cooperation.
This is the kind of help that the ideals and institutions of the United Nations offer. But we must also help ourselves, and we can continue to do so by resolving to live up to the ideals of the U.N. Charter. The United Nations today faces a crisis of cash and credibility. The opportunity exists, during the 41st General Assembly, for the member states to consider and adopt a program of reforms; strengthen the U.N.'s ability to reach and help humanity, particularly the poorest and most defenseless; and reinforce the U.N.'s mission to keep the peace and promote human rights. If all the members of this universal organization decide to seize the moment and turn the rhetoric of reform into reality, the future of the United Nations will be secure.
We have a better world today because of the United Nations and its various international organizations, such as the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF)—now celebrating its 40th anniversary of serving the world's children through eradicating disease, lowering the rate of infant mortality, and focusing the world's attention on children in need. We will have a better world tomorrow the more we remain faithful to the vision and the promise of the Charter framed in San Francisco 41 years ago.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Friday, October 24, 1986, as United Nations Day, and I urge all Americans to acquaint themselves with the activities and accomplishments of the United Nations. I have appointed Roger E. Birk to serve as the United States National Chairman for the 1986 United Nations Day and welcome the role of the United Nations Association of the United States of America in working with him to celebrate this special day.
In Witness Whereof. I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  