
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Food is basic to life. Achieving and maintaining an adequate, reliable food supply is a high priority for every nation.
From the first, the United States has supported the principle that a strong nation requires a strong agricultural foundation. Out of our westward pioneer movement emerged a sound system of agriculture firmly based on the concepts of private enterprise and the primacy of the independent family farm. The result has been a food production system well able to feed our own population while meeting the needs of others throughout the world.
Not all nations are blessed with America's agricultural endowments, nor have many nations adopted the incentives that are critical to fueling such a successful agriculture. The Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations estimates that as many as 400 to 500 million people suffer from poverty-induced malnutrition, particularly in the Third World.
The people of the United States have long been committed to sharing this country's agricultural bounty and technology with other nations in times of need. We have provided more than $30 billion in food aid, plus an additional $10 billion for shipping costs, since the "Food-for-Peace" program was initiated 98 years ago. We have also made available thousands of agricultural experts, a diversity of training programs, and benefits of our intensive agricultural research. The United States is also doing its part to improve world food security by maintaining high levels of production and reserve stocks and by making agricultural products available in the world market so that other countries can meet their food requirements.
We have not been alone in focusing attention on the problems of hunger in the world. More than 100 countries participated in observing the first World Food Day last year. We particularly salute the Food and Agriculture Organization which, on World Food Day this year, celebrates 37 years of dedication to the elimination of hunger and malnutrition.
Let us continue our mutual efforts to define the causes of world food problems and vigorously pursue their solutions. Toward that end, the Congress of the United States has again responded with a Joint Resolution designating October 16, 1982, as World Food Day.
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 16, 1982, "World Food Day" and do call upon the people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 5th day of Oct., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  