
    
  Union Leader: "Graham Said He Has The Experience To Be Commander-In-Chief"
  (Meghan Pierce, "Graham touts experience in Keene visit, Union Leader, 10/9/15)

Yesterday, Senator Lindsey Graham kicked-off his 9-day tour of the Granite State in Keene where he toured Samson Manufacturing, visited the Cheshire County Fish and Game Club and attended a house party hosted by RNC National Committeewoman Juliana Bergeron. In addition, Graham joined NHPR's The Exchange with Laura Knoy for a town hall style interview. In case you missed it, catch it here.
NHPR: "Graham Takes Aim In New Hampshire During Campaign Swing"
(Paige Sutherland, "Graham Takes Aim In New Hampshire During Campaign Swing," NHPR, (10/08/15)

"While there, the GOP presidential candidate took a turn with the merchandise, hitting targets with both a 12-gauge shotgun and an RK-15 assault rifle. On his next visit at the Cheshire County Fish & Game Club, the senator also tested out his shooting skills by hitting nearly every skeet disk that flew his way.
"He joked, 'If shooting [skeet] matters, I think I won New Hampshire.'"
(Paige Sutherland, "Graham Takes Aim In New Hampshire During Campaign Swing," NHPR, (10/08/15)

Discussing Energy Independence On NHPR's The Exchange...
Graham: "If I were president, I would get the environmental community, energy producers in a room and see if we could come up with... a lower carbon community... rewarding, incentivizing alternative energy... nuclear power, finding oil and gas that we own, export some of it to make the world a safer place, undercut Putin's monopoly when it comes to natural gas. It's a comprehensive approach to energy and the environment."
On National Security...

On The Early Primary States...

NHPR's Laura Knoy: "I did read recently that you've logged more campaign visits to New Hampshire than any other candidate at this point."
Graham: "I'll take any question under the sun. It makes me a better candidate."

Off to a great start in the Granite State!
  