
    Read about Rick's pro-growth plan that simplifies the tax code, ends the IRS as we know it, jumpstarts the manufacturing sector, balances and reforms the federal budget, raises the minimum wage, reforms entitlements, and stops the surge of legal and illegal immigration. 
American families are struggling. The last years of the Bush presidency brought tremendous financial hardships. So have the Obama-Biden years. Taxes are soaring. Regulations are mounting. Spending and debt are out of control. Poverty is rising. And chronic economic weakness at home is inviting our enemies to test us abroad.
Hardworking Americans don't see the system working for them, and many are losing hope. They increasingly fear that the American Dream is dying, that their children won't have more freedom or opportunities than they did, that America's best days are behind us, not ahead of us.
America deserves better. Our nation is on the wrong track.
This is why I am running for President: to fight every day to advance an Economic Freedom Agenda that will create more opportunity for everyone to rise in society and make life better and safer for all American workers – especially blue collar workers – and their families.
The 20/20 Flat Tax Plan
The chief causes of low growth and the woeful lack of sufficient job creation are the hideously complex federal income tax code, sky-high corporate tax rates, and the scandal-ridden Internal Revenue Service. Massive job-killing regulations, a completely dysfunctional immigration system, runaway spending and debt, and a host of other foolish Big Government policies further compound the problem.
But the disastrous federal tax code and the IRS that runs it have come to symbolize everything that is wrong with Washington.
It's time to drain the swamp. 
My "20/20 Flat Tax Plan" is not the only element of my Economic Freedom Agenda. But it is the centerpiece. These are they key points:
Scrap the Tax Code and Unleash Economic Growth

Abolish the anti-worker, anti-family, anti-growth, anti-freedom federal income tax code once and for all and replace it with a simple, honest, fair rate system - 20% flat tax on individual income / 20% flat tax on business income.
Dramatically downsize, restructure, and reform the IRS.

Fight for American Workers

Aim to make the US, once again, the world's leading manufacturer by providing companies with a jumpstart to compensate for the current uncompetitive system in the form of a 100% income exemption to be phased out over two years and tax deductions for capital investments. 
Negotiate Free Trade Agreements with the goal of expanding access to foreign markets for American products and services. 
Audit the Federal Reserve and appoint a Fed Chairman committed to maintaining sound money and a strong dollar.
Increase the minimum wage by $0.50 per year for three years to bring it back in line with historical standards.

Cut Spending and Balance/Reform the Federal Budget

Fully repeal Obamacare and all of the taxes that came with it. 
Call on Congress and the States to pass a Balanced-Budget Amendment to the Constitution, limiting federal spending to 18% of the GDP.
Submit to Congress a plan that balances the federal budget within five years. 

Unleash America's Energy

Approve the Keystone Pipeline for jobs and energy security. 
Open up market access to all forms of domestic fuel production.
Give states the freedom to choose where they want to explore for oil and natural gas and to set their own regulations for hydrofracking.

Stop Job-killing Regulation

Vigorously protect the safety and security of American workers and their families while protecting and promoting commonsense conservationist policies to safeguard America's vital natural resources.
Veto or repeal nonsensical laws, regulations, and excessive orders that claim to protect Americans but actually destroy jobs.

Reform Entitlements

Introduce work requirements for means-tested entitlement programs, including the federal food stamps program.
Cut means-tested entitlement programs by 10% across the board, freeze them for four years, and block grant them to States. 
Reform and strengthen Medicare and Social Security so they are fiscally sustainable for seniors and future generations.

Stop the Surge of Both Illegal and Legal Immigration

Seal the Mexican border with an American-made wall. 
Rescind the Obama-Biden measure that expand and encourage illegal immigration. 
Reduce legal immigration by 25% to ensure that Americans get the first shot at new jobs and higher wages. 
Veto any legislation aimed at creating amnesty. 

  