
    Mayor Shaw, my friends of Los Angeles:
Thank you from the bottom of my heart for this beautiful and splendid reception.
It is a pleasure indeed to come back to California. To the liberal spirit of this State our National program and progress owe a great debt. No State has a finer record in the great task of putting the strong arm of Government behind the lees fortunate members of society. No State has sought more sincerely to improve the lot of every citizen. No State has been more earnest in its desire to foster the ideal of social justice.
Just so long as the least among us remains hungry, or uncared for, or unable to find useful work, just so long must it be the task of all Government, local, State and Federal, to seek reasonable but progressive means to help the unfortunate. The faith of a liberal is profound belief not only in the capacities of individual men and women, but also in the effectiveness of people helping one another. California has many splendid examples of the usefulness of that kind of human cooperation.
As you know, I have not come here today to speak to you formally or even to speak to you about the problems of your national Government. I can tell you truthfully, however, that in crossing the continent, I have been heartened, more than anything else, by the look on people's faces. In these past years I have sought to understand the trials and the great difficulties under which such a large number of our people labor. I have tried to visualize the insecurities that have beset the lives of millions of our families.
It is true, as shown not by the figures alone, but the fine spirit of the great mass of Americans in every part of the land, that we have come through stormy seas into fair weather. A long patience is receiving its reward. Faith is being justified. Hope is being fulfilled.
It is true that we who are entrusted with the responsibilities of Government have labored toward this end, but the greatest factor in the improvement has been the courage of the American people themselves. Without your help, our labors would have availed far less.
We have taken many steps to protect the family and the individual against many of the natural difficulties of life. We have moved forward to give greater security to the unemployed and to the aged. We have sought sound means to our end.
Years ago President Wilson told me a story. He said that the greatest problem that the head of a progressive democracy had to face was not the criticism of reactionaries or the attacks of those who would set up some other form of Government, but rather to reconcile and unite progressive liberals themselves. The overwhelming majority of liberals all seek the same end, the same ultimate objectives. But because most liberals are able to see beyond the end of their own noses, they are very apt to want to reach their goal by different roads. People who do not want to move forward in the improvement of civilization are perfectly content to stand in one spot, and those people find it easy to remain united in demanding inaction. Liberals, therefore, in order to make their efforts successful, must find common ground and a common road, each making some concession as to form and method in order that all may obtain the substance of what all desire.
This great gathering here today is an inspiration which I shall carry with me. It brings vividly to my mind the splendid pageant in this Coliseum which I had the privilege of seeing in 1932. I have but one thought of regret today. On that occasion I was introduced by a very old friend of mine, a friend of every man, woman and child in the United States, a kindly philosopher-one who would be with us today but for his untimely death in Alaska.
Will Rogers' kindly humor saw facts and laughed at fantasy.
With him, most of us accept the prosaic fact that the way to make progress is to build on what we have, to take from the lessons of yesterday a little more wisdom and courage to meet the tasks of today. Democracy is not a static thing. It is an everlasting march. When our children grow up, they will still have problems to overcome. It is for us, however, manfully to set ourselves to the task of preparation for them, so that to some degree the difficulties they must overcome may weigh upon them less heavily.
I am confident that the people of the Nation, having put their shoulder to the wheel, will build a better future for their children in the days to come.
  