
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, good morning. Secretary Acosta, Senator Paul, Secretary Mnuchin, Director Mulvaney, Administrator McMahon, and Senator Paul, thank you for those thoughtful remarks. And to Congressman Greg Walden and Congresswoman Virginia Foxx, other distinguished members of Congress, and job creators, it's an honor to share this moment with you today -- a moment where President Trump will take a critical step to lower the cost of health insurance for working Americans.
Since day one of our administration, President Trump has made it a top priority to rescue the American people from the disastrous failure of Obamacare.
Every day Obamacare survives is another day the American people struggle. And all the job creators gathered here today at the White House have witnessed the failures of Obamacare firsthand. Premiums have more than doubled since Obamacare went into effect, and next year premiums are set to increase even more.
While costs have been skyrocketing, choices are plummeting. Next year, nearly half of America's counties will have only one choice of health insurance provider, which means they essentially have no choice at all.
As the President and I have traveled the country, we've heard stories from small-business owners like those gathered here today, from working families who are struggling under the weight of Obamacare. Today, President Trump will take decisive action to provide the American people with flexibility and freedom from the burdens of Obamacare and expand the number of affordable healthcare options for working Americans.
And, Mr. President, I can say, I speak for everyone here and for millions of Americans when I say how grateful we are for your determination to repeal and replace Obamacare and your commitment demonstrated today by this action to provide the American people with more choices for more affordable healthcare in the 21st century.
And with that, ladies and gentlemen, it's my privilege to introduce the President of the United States of America. (Applause.)
  