
    
If the American economy is to reach its full potential in the 21st Century, American workers must have all the opportunities possible. Marco supports a wide range of reforms that will protect workers, modernize our labor rules, create new incentives for job creation, and unleash innovation. Marco's plans will help workers who have suffered during the Obama Administration's anemic economic recovery.
If the American Dream is to be preserved and expanded to more people than ever before, we need comprehensive economic reforms to help American workers. Marco proposes to:
Empower American Workers
As a Senator, Marco has pushed for updating outdated labor regulations and throwing out rules that empower unions rather than create opportunities for workers. As President, he'll continue that fight. He plans to:

Lift Union-Imposed Pay Caps on Millions of American Workers: Marco is fighting for the Rewarding Achievement and Incentivizing Successful Employees (RAISE) Act, which removes union-imposed obstacles to pay increases for millions of workers.


Expand Options for Workers: Marco supports allowing employers to provide workers with a choice between receiving monetary compensation or paid leave for working overtime.


Worker Choice: Marco supports giving all workers the choice over whether or not they join a union.


Reform the NLRB: Marco supports reforming the National Labor Relations Board to ensure that it acts as a neutral arbiter, not an arm of Big Labor to punish the private sector and workers.


Reverse the NLRB's Disastrous "Joint Employer" Decision: The NLRB's "joint employer" decision will hurt small businesses, especially franchises. Marco supports reversing this disastrous decision and returning control to small businesses.

Pass Tax Reform
Marco has a comprehensive tax reform plan that will cut taxes for working Americans, jumpstart investment, and slash corporate taxes to boost wages.
The nonpartisan Tax Foundation estimates that it will raise wages for all taxpayers and create millions of jobs. Read more about the plan here.
Protect the Sharing Economy
Marco will oppose harmful new mandates, regulations, and taxes that can get in the way of innovative work opportunities provided by the sharing economy. Read more about that here.
Overhaul Higher Education
Marco proposes modernizing our outdated higher education system so that American workers can get the skills they need at an affordable price and in ways compatible with other priorities. Read more about the proposals here.
Unleash American Energy Potential
Making the best use of America's energy resources provides abundant opportunities for high-paying jobs, many of which don't even require a college degree. Marco will lift allow states to oversee energy production on federal lands, cut back on job-killing EPA regulations, and more. Read about his energy plans here.
Limit Regulatory Overreach
Marco has proposed a National Regulatory Budget, which will set a limit on the costs that can be imposed by federal regulations overall and by rules from each federal agency. This will roll back regulators' ability to strangle job creation and restore Congress's ability to oversee regulation. Read more about the idea here.
On Video

Op-Eds & Speeches
Marco talks about building a New American Economy at the Detroit Economic Club, August 20, 2015.
Marco and Senator Mike Lee explain their tax plan. (Wall Street Journal, March 4, 2015)
  