
    Across America, from the Sun Belt states to our industrial Heartland, President Trump's blue-collar, middle-class agenda is paying off for American families.
While China and the World Health Organization allowed Coronavirus to spread across the globe, America was in the midst of a massive blue-collar boom.
Wages rose, inequality fell, and the unemployment rate plunged to a 50-year low.
In fact, according to a report earlier this year, since President Trump took office:

Wage growth for workers has outpaced wage growth for managers.
Wage growth for those without a bachelor's degree has outpaced wage growth for those with a bachelor's degree or higher.
Wage growth for lower-income people?those at the 10th percentile of the income distribution?has outpaced wage growth for wealthier Americans.
Average real household income hit a record high in 2019, while poverty rates hit a record low, including for African Americans and Hispanic Americans.

That's no accident. President Trump's economic agenda is tailor-made to rebuild our great American middle class, transferring power from affluent white-collar professionals and activists to workers, small businesses, manufacturers, and others once left behind by globalization's failures.
It's about more than cutting taxes and growing our economy?although both are important. It's about eliminating unnecessary degree requirements that help the privileged but hurt skilled workers. It's about ending overregulation that creates jobs for lawyers and consultants but kills jobs for manufacturers and energy producers. It's about fixing trade deals that boosted multinational corporations but shipped our jobs to China and Mexico.
President Trump is fighting for the forgotten Americans once sidelined by our country's own politicians, both Democrat and Republican. Today, these politicians are at it again, calling for endless lockdowns and blaming their fellow Americans for a pandemic that started in China that has already infected over 40 million people worldwide.
Meanwhile, President Trump restricted travel from China, held the global health bureaucracy accountable for its failures, signed direct stimulus relief into law, and orchestrated a historic nationwide effort to produce masks, ventilators, therapeutics, and?one day in the very near future?a vaccine.
Now, the President is leading a Great American Comeback that has seen over 1.4 million manufacturing and construction jobs return in just the past 5 months alone. All told, the U.S. economy has added over 11 million jobs since May.
Today, our political class spends too much time trying to impress one another and too little time working for you. Fortunately, under President Trump, their unchecked power is shrinking?while the power of blue-collar, working Americans across our country grows each day.
MORE: Incomes hit record high and poverty hit record low in 2019
President Trump's Plan for Pennsylvania: All Job Creation is Local
  