
    President Trump has expanded school choice, increased HBCU funding, and enacted criminal justice reform.
Since his inauguration, President Trump has championed policies that have revitalized the Black community, creating a more inclusive economy for Black Americans, providing historic funding for our Historical Black Colleges and Universities, expanding school choice, and giving more Black Americans a chance to achieve the American Dream.
President Trump signed the historic FIRST STEP ACT into law.


90 percent of those who have had their sentences reduced are Black Americans.


FIRST STEP ACT shortens mandatory minimum sentence for nonviolent drug crimes.


The law allows offenders sentenced under racially motivated mandatory minimums to petition for revaluation


President Trump launched the "Ready to Work" Initiative, which helps released prisoners gain meaningful employment.


President Trump has proposed the Second Step Act to partner with corporate America to create opportunities for former prisoners to rejoin society.


Black Americans are seeing unprecedented levels of economic success with record low unemployment rates, more jobs, and higher incomes.


Over 1.4 million more Black Americans have found a job between President Trump's election and February 2020.


Black poverty reached a historic low in 2019.


President Trump designated 8,760 Opportunity Zones that are projected to spur $100 billion in private investment in minority communities.


The Trump administration established a fund to deploy $1 billion in capital funding for minority-owned businesses through the Commerce Department.


President Trump called on Congress to pass school choice legislation to expand educational opportunities for all American children, especially those in our nation's inner cities.


President Trump's FY 2020 budget called for $500 million in federal funding for school choice, and in 2018 he signed legislation increasing school choice funding by $42 million.




The Trump Administration proposed the Education Freedom Scholarships and Opportunity Act.


President Trump restored funding and increased investment for Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) by 14 percent.


The Trump Administration provided more than $500 million in loans to HBCUs through the Capital Financing Program.




President Trump worked with HBCUs to protect $80 million in Title III carryover funding.


President Trump signed the FUTURE Act into law, which permanently funds HBCUs and simplifies the FAFSA application.


In 2018, President Trump signed a budget deal which forgave more than $300 million in debt owed by four HBCUs impacted by natural disasters and provided $10 million in loan payment deferments for schools that face financial difficulties, including HBCUs.


President Trump worked with Congress to lift the ban on Pell Grants on summer classes.


  