
    Pool Reports by Erin Logan, Los Angeles Yimes 



Sent:
Reports:




October 28, 202211:52

Travel Report #1: Call time pushed to 3PM
Hello.
I will be your pooler this weekend. The White House has pushed the out of town pool call time to 3PM.



October 28, 202216:32

Travel pool report #2:Checking in
Hello from Wilmington (near Biden's residence),
The travel pool has been swept and holding on a bus for POTUS, who is scheduled to depart from Delaware Air National Guard Base at 5:30 and arrive at Philadelphia International Airport 15 minutes later, per a WH guidance.
POTUS and VPOTUS are scheduled to deliver remarks at a reception for the Pennsylvania Democratic Party in Philadelphia at 7pm ET.
Per an email from Senate Candidate Mehmet Oz's team, his campaign will play the Nextstar PA Senate debate "on repeat" outside the fundraiser.
POTUS is expected to then return to Wilmington, Delaware where he will remain for the weekend. Per a WH guidance, POTUS is expected to vote on Saturday alongside his with his granddaughter Natalie.



October 28, 202217:44

Travel pool report #3: motorcade rolling
at 5:43 en route to Delaware Air National Guard Base. Your pooler did not see Biden enter his vehicle.



October 28, 202217:56

Travel pool report #4:Motorcade arrives at base
The motorcade arrived at Delaware Air National Guard Base at 5:51. POTUS exited the motorcade at 5:53 and did not stop to speak with press (we were at a great distance). He entered M1 at 5:53.
The ride to the base was uneventful.
Your pool has boarded the helo
Wheels up momentarily.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of StaffSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



October 28, 202218:01

Travel pool report #5: M1 wheels up
5:59
From the WH— Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Philadelphia International Airport:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff



October 28, 202218:24

Travel pool report #6: M1 wheels down, motorcade rolling
Hello from Philadelphia.
Your pooler did not see M1 depart as she was with the pool on the helo, which has wheels down at 6:07pm.
M1 had wheels down shortly after at 6:14pm. Biden emerged from M1 at 6:22pm.
POTUS did not stop to speak to press (we were again great distance and put in vans) and instead headed for his motorcade, which began rolling at 6:23pm



October 28, 202218:46

Travel pool report #7: Motorcade arrives at Philadelphia Convention Center
At 6:38. POTUS exited his car at 6:43. Press was taken into the center as he exited the vehicle.
The ride was uneventful.
It looks like the remarks will be aired on TV and CSPAN so tune in!



October 28, 202219:06

Travel pool report #7a: color from inside the center, Fetterman speaking now
The pool is in the ballroom, where the reception is already underway. Press wad taken to a sectioned off area in the back right of the room.
What's on the menu? Looks like chicken with some type of rice and vegetables. Just outside the ballroom, there are 2 bars outside about 7 cocktail tables. Sen. Bob Casey just spoke right now about crime. When the pool arrived, Lt. Gov. candidate Austin Davis was speaking.
Senate candidate and Lt. Gov. John Fetterman just began speaking. He is wearing a black hoodie.
From the WH: Participating in a photoline with the President and the Vice President:
Tom Wolf, Governor of PennsylvaniaJohn Fetterman, Lieutenant Governor of PennsylvaniaSenator Bob Casey (PA)Rep. Dwight Evans (PA-03)Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)Josh Shapiro, Attorney General of PennsylvaniaPennsylvania Senator Anthony Williams (Senate District 8)Pennsylvania Representative Joanna McClinton (191st District), Democratic Leader of the Pennsylvania House of RepresentativesPennsylvania Representative Austin Davis (35thDistrict)



October 28, 202219:38

Travel pool report #7b: more from inside the center, Harris remarks beginning
The event is now on break, following speeches from Lt. Gov. John Fetterman and Gov. Tom Wolf and a slate of awards given to Pennsylvania Democratic Party members, including former Penn. Rep Robert Brady. Per a DNC official, there are about 1,000 people at this dinner.
DNC Chairman Jamie Harrison is spoke for about seven minutes. He introduced the next speaker, Vice President Kamala Harris, who came on stage 7:36. She was greeted by a standing ovation. Her remarks are being live-streamed here.



October 28, 202219:39

Travel pool report #7c: Tonights run of show
From the White House: 
The President is delivering remarks at a reception for the Pennsylvania Democratic Party:
Speaking Program
The Vice President
Sharif Street, Pennsylvania Democratic Party Chair
Lyriq Eccleston, Cardiovascular Monitoring Technician & Member of Pennsylvania Association of Staff Nurses and Allied Professionals
The President



October 28, 202219:49

Travel pool report #7d: Harris remarks end
Harris remarks ended at 7:47pm
When Harris mentioned the Supreme Court during her speech, the was an audible boo and moan. Harris refereed to Senate candidate Oz as "this fellow running against John Fetterman" and noted that he recently said that local politicians belong in examination rooms as women are getting/are being consulted for abortions.
"We trust the women of Pennsylvania. We trust the women of America."
Harris noted that when the Dobbs mandate came down, she said the same people who suggest states should determine abortion access are the same ones making it more difficult to vote. She called on voters to elect the slate of Pennsylvania Democrats to office.
Electing them would enable Democrats to fight for paid family leave and to pass the assault weapons ban. Harris said the "filibuster will not stand in the way of protecting two fundamental freedoms." Presumably, she is referring to abortion and voting.
Harris said she has already broken founding father John Adam's recon for tie breaking votes.
"Pennsylvania Democrats, we know what we stand for and we know what to fight for…We have 11 days to fight like we have never fought before."
She added: when we fight we win.
Per a WH guidance, Biden will speak after the state party chairman and a cardiovascular monitoring tech speak.



October 28, 202219:58

Travel pool report #7e:Biden remarks begin, mention of Paul Pelosi
Biden took the stage at 7:54
At the top of the call mentioned the assault of Paul Pelosi. He said that House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said he's in "good spirits."
Biden said its being reported that the man chanted "where is Nancy" and noted this was the same chant used by Trump supporters at Jan. 6 insurrection.
Her remarks are being live-streamed here.



October 28, 202220:29

Travel pool report #7f: Biden remarks ended
I should have mentioned in my last report that the audience members greeted Biden with a standing ovation. Biden lifted his right leg and showed off his red angle socks which had the logo of the Philadelphia Phillies. The crowd again stood and applauded him.
Biden highlighted Sen. Bob Casey "Imagine Casey and Fetterman as partners in the US Senate." He touted Fetterman and said he "is Pennsylvania." He also touted the Democratic gubernatorial candidate, Josh Shapiro.
Biden said the upcoming election will shape what the country will look like through the next decade. "This election is not a referendum. It's a choice. A choice between two vastly different visions of America," he said.
Biden said he inherited a broken economy and said that during the pandemic, a record number of Americans became billionaires while nine million Americans lost their job. He said that currently the nation is in a better place "but we've got more to do." He touted economic stats—10 million jobs created.
Biden said Putin's invasion of Ukraine "sent gas prices soaring round the world" and noted that gas prices has for the last 3 weeks have been dropping. He said energy companies need to price gas to reflect what its worth. He noted that energy companies are raising prices to increase their profit margins.
Biden touted the GDP report yesterday which reflected that, "the economy is growing" and said that Republicans, who've warned and run on a looming recession, must be disappointed by the good numbers.
Biden touted the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, noting that Trump was never able to pass it, despite routinely promoting infrastructure week.
"We heard about infrastructure week for 4 years. And by the way it never got done. In fact, it became a bunch line. On my life, with the help of Kamala and the folks in this room, we created an infrastructure decade," Biden said.
Biden knocked big Pharma, noting that it sell the same prescriptions in other countries at a substantially lower price. He said the government would cap the cost of insulin for those on medicare to $35 a month, saying it is a far less than about $400 a month, which is the average people pay now.
He said it cost $10 to make that drug and another $5 for packaging, saying the $35 cap is more than enough profit.
Biden said that the Democratic Party had reduced the deficit by over 1 trillion. He said the deficit would be further reduced in the coming years by $250 billion, thanks to the increased taxes on corporations.
Biden noted Kevin McCarthy and his fellow MAGArepublicans, are trying to get rid of the Biden administration's healthcare savings and said they would try to eliminate the affordable care act and said that people did not realize the only reason people with pre-existing conditions can get healthcare.
"These protections will be gone if Republicans get their way."
He said that GOP Sen. Rick Scott of Florida laid out the GOP plan to put social security and medicare on the chopping block every five years, which means it would be a continual fight in Congress. Wisconsin Sen. Ron Johnson wants to do the same (and add in veterans benefits) and put it on the chopping block every year. He said that they have threatened to shut down the government to get this done. Biden said this would create economic chaos.
Biden said the GOP is coming after the right to vote.
"Democracy is literally, not figuratively, on the ballot this year," he said. "The amazing thing is they're saying it out loud."
Biden mentioned Dr. Oz and said he thinks the right to chose should be between a woman, her doctor and local political leaders.
Many in the audience loudly clapped and stood Biden said he would veto any GOP bill that threatened women's access to abortion on the federal level. Biden vowed to ban assault weapons "again."
Biden said he called on Dems, independents and mainstream Republicans to come together and vote.
Biden remarks ended at 8:27pm. Press is packing up to roll out.



October 28, 202221:00

Travel pool report #8: motorcade rolling
at 8:58pm en route to Philadelphia International Airport.
Your pooler did not see Biden enter the motorcade.
Your pooler did however see Legendary star actor Sophia Bush of One Tree Hill standing near the motorcade in the downstairs garage as the press pool was shuffled to the vans.



October 28, 202221:24

Travel pool report #9: arrival at airport+wheels up
The motorcade arrived at the airport in Philadelphia at 9:12.
The ride was uneventful.
Your pooler did not see POTUS exit motorcade. Pool was then shuffled to the helio, which has Wheels up at 9:23



October 28, 202222:02

Travel pool report #10: M1 wheels down, motorcade departure and arrival+lid
M1 had wheels down in Delaware at 9:39pm
POTUS exited M1 at 9:43 and went to the motorcade, which began rolling at 9:45 and arrived at residence at 9:57.
(Your pooler did not see Biden exit the motorcade)
The White House called a lid at 9:58.
From the WH: Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Delaware Air National Guard:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryRyan Harper, Special Assistant to the President & National Security Council Deputy Chief of Staff




  