
    Pool Reports by Tal Kopan, San Francisco Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




October 27, 202109:19

In-town pool report 1: Summit attendees 
Good morning on a blustery fall day in DC.
Your pool's call time today isn't until noon, but the White House passes along the following attendees for the President's closed-press virtual summit this morning.
Virtual Attendees at the East Asia Virtual Summit:

ASEAN Secretary General Dato Lim Jock Hoi
Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah of Brunei
Prime Minister Hun Sen of Cambodia
President Joko Widodo of Indonesia
Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith of Laos
Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob of Malaysia
Secretary of Foreign Affairs Teodoro Locsin of the Philippines
Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong of Singapore
Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha of Thailand
Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh of Vietnam
Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia
Premier Li Keqiang of China
Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India
Prime Minister Fumio Kishida of Japan
Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern of New Zealand
President Moon Jae-in of the Republic of Korea
President Vladimir Putin of Russia
World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus
World Trade Organization Director-General Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala
Secretary of State Antony Blinken




October 27, 202110:03

In-town pool report 2: Manchin-Sinema readout
Insert your favorite Sinema-Manchin portmanteau here, the White House passes along the following:
From a White House official:
The President hosted Senator Manchin and Senator Sinema at the White House yesterday to continue their negotiations on the Build Back Better Act, and how we can grow our economy in a way that deals the middle class back in and gives them breathing room.
The three made progress on top of what has been accomplished in recent days, and look forward to next steps so that we can equip Americans for high-paying jobs, deliver historic investments to make health care and child care more affordable for American families, and take on climate change.



October 27, 202113:27

In-town pool report 3: Briefing begins 
The briefing with Jen Psaki began at 1:26 pm.
I do not plan to send a "briefing ends" note unless anyone specifically needs it, in an effort to spare your inboxes.



October 27, 202114:30

In-town pool report 4: Lunch lid 
There's a lunch lid until 3:45 pm, per overhead announcement just now.
There have been no schedule updates, for those curious, and there are no public events on the schedule for the President the rest of the day.
For any scrupulous note keepers, the briefing ended at 2:16 pm.



October 27, 202116:12

In-town pool report 5: Sanders meeting 
A White House aide confirms that Sen. Sanders was here for a meeting. I don't have specific timing from the press office, but another reporter spotted him leaving recently.
Otherwise, no scheduling or any other updates to share.



October 27, 202117:06

In-town pool 6: Travel/photo lid 
The White House announced a travel/photo lid on the overhead at 5:04 pm.




  