
    Chicago, IL -- The Obama campaign announced today that Mark Alexander, the Policy Director, will take on a new role as the New Jersey State Director. While he will focus his energies on New Jersey, Alexander will remain a Senior Advisor to Obama, continuing with special policy projects, political efforts, and strategic planning.
"This country is ready for leadership that will unite instead of divide and as a long time New Jersey resident I am proud to take the lead in building the team in the state that will help send Barack Obama to the White House," said Alexander. "The thousands of New Jersey residents who have joined our grassroots campaign know that to truly turn the page on the Bush years, it's not enough to change parties, we've got to transform our politics."
"Mark has been an essential part of planning our campaign from the start, and I am grateful that he is going to carry the fight forward to and through the February 5 contests. He is a valued and trusted advisor, and at the same time has deep ties in his home of New Jersey that will be invaluable to our efforts," said Obama. "I am proud of the policy work we have done on this campaign and through Mark's leadership we have built a team of key advisors from the ground up that will continue to offer new and innovative approaches to the challenges this country faces."
Alexander is currently on leave from his job as Professor of Law at Seton Hall University School of Law. He was General Counsel to Cory Booker in his 2006 campaign for Mayor of Newark, and for the transition team after Booker won, along with a sweep of the City Council. He also served as Issues Director in the Bill Bradley presidential campaign in the 1999-2000 presidential election cycle. He lives in Montclair with his wife and three children.
The campaign recently held a major event in Princeton featuring Major General Scott Gration (ret.) commemorating the fifth anniversary of Obama's speech opposing the Iraq war. On October 13, the campaign will host two events, one in Cherry Hill and one in Jersey City, as part of the campaign's "Turn the Page on Iraq" Canvass Day. Senator Obama will be in New Jersey on October 22. More information will be available soon.
  