
    The Clinton Campaign announced today the endorsement of California State Senator Jenny Oropeza of the 28th Senate District. Oropeza cited Clinton's policies on education, health care and the environment as reasons for her backing.
"Hillary Clinton has the experience that we need to improve our educational system, provide quality, affordable health care, protect our environment and end global warming," said Oropeza.
Senator Jenny Oropeza began her career in political office by serving on the Long Beach Unified School District Board of Education from 1988 to 1994. In 1994 she became the first Latina to be elected to the Long Beach City Council. Re-elected in 1998, she also served as a board member of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority for four years during her service on city council.
Elected to the California State Assembly in 2000 and to the California Senate in 2006, Oropeza stands as one of the highest ranking Latinos in the state legislature. She currently chairs the Senate Revenue and Taxation Committee and serves on the Senate Transportation Committee and the Elections, Reapportionment and Constitutional Amendments Committee. Involved with various other select and sub-committees, Oropeza also serves on the California Commission on the Status of Women and chairs the California Latino Caucus Policy Committee on Environmental Justice.
Throughout her public service, she has consistently prioritized the issues of transportation, the environment, health care and education. During her tenure she has helped pass legislation to increase port security, restrict smoking in additional common-use areas and require the California Medical Board to provide patients with culturally and linguistically appropriate information.
"I am honored to have the backing of Jenny Oropeza, a vocal proponent for women, children and families," said Clinton.
Oropeza's endorsement is a significant addition to Hillary Clinton's strong support from prominent Latinos throughout California, including: Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, California State Assembly Speaker Fabián Núñez, Congresswoman Grace Napolitano of California's 38th District, Congresswoman Lucille Roybal-Allard of California's 34th District, Congresswoman Hilda Solis of California's 32nd District and co-founder of the United Farm Workers and human rights leader Dolores Huerta.
The 28th Senate District includes the cities of Torrance, El Segundo Redondo Beach, Manhattan Beach, Hermosa Beach, Lomita and Carson as well as parts of the cities of Long Beach and Los Angeles.
  