
    Thank you very much, Senator John Glenn. I know the people of Ohio are proud of your Senator, aren't you? [Applause] The whole Nation feels the same way.
Let me say, first of all, that it's a great pleasure to be back in Ohio, a State that has suffered in some areas from the economic problems brought about by OPEC price increases. But Ohio has seen, since the day I was inaugurated, 418,000 more people on the job today than in January of 1977.
We have a long way to go. My goal is to make sure that all the Ohio utility companies have a right to use Ohio coal to make electricity. Also, my goal is to make sure we continue to produce more coal. This year we will produce more United States coal than any year in history, and in the future I want to see on the international energy markets OPEC oil replaced with Ohio coal. Will you help me do that? [Applause]
Let me say also that John Glenn has been one of the foremost leaders in bringing about control of atomic weapons. Every President since Harry Truman has seen the advantage of controlling nuclear weapons—Democrats and Republicans. Last year we signed a treaty with the Soviet Union as a result of 7 years of negotiations, under two Republican Presidents and myself. Now my opponent, Governor Reagan, has advocated that we scrap this treaty, throw it in a wastebasket, and he calls for a nuclear arms race against the Soviet Union. This is a very serious matter of great concern to all Americans. It's important for us to prevent other nations from having atomic weapons who do not now have them. Governor Reagan's response to that is that nonproliferation is none of our business. This is a very dangerous attitude for a President to take.
We have, in this country, a real commitment in the Democratic Party for working families of this Nation. The Democrats are the ones who gave us minimum wage. My opponent, Governor Reagan, says that minimum wage has caused us more misery and more unemployment than anything since the Great Depression. Many of your families have suffered because of temporary unemployment. Governor Reagan says unemployment compensation is a prepaid vacation for freeloaders. Governor Reagan got his start in politics campaigning around this Nation against Medicare, and he's advocated social security be made voluntary on four different occasions.
All of you know the advantages in the last 50 years when Democratic Presidents were in the White House. We made steady progress, for a better life for all Americans, a strong defense, a commitment to peace, the control of nuclear weapons, stopping the spread or proliferation of atomic weapons around the world, a strong minimum wage, unemployment compensation, increase in the use of American coal in dealing with the energy problem, bringing peace to the Middle East. Those are the kinds of issues that are at stake.
If you'll help me the next 2 weeks, we'll keep a Democratic administration in Washington, reelect John Glenn, keep a President in the White House who cares about you and have another great victory for—[inaudible].
Thank you very much. If you'll help me, we'll win together. Thank you.
  