
    Caldera will Serve on the Veterans and Military Retirees Committee
Citing her record fighting for America's troops and veterans, the former Secretary of the Army Louis E. Caldera today endorsed Hillary Clinton for President of the United States. Caldera, the son of Mexican immigrants, will join the Veterans and Military Retirees for Hillary along with other distinguished leaders such as General Wesley Clark and Lt. General Claudia Kennedy.
"Hillary Clinton is the candidate with the experience to deal with the complex challenges that our nation faces. I am convinced that she is the leader with the strength to bring the change that America needs," said Caldera. "Her record of fighting to give our soldiers and veterans the life-saving armor they need in the line of fire, and the health care and support services they deserve when they get home was crucial in my decision to endorse her."
Following graduation from the United States Military Academy at West Point, Caldera served as a U.S. Army officer in the active and reserve components. After earning his law and business degrees, he practiced in the areas of corporate, banking and public finance law. In 1992, Caldera was elected to the California State Assembly, and for five years he represented a multicultural district in Los Angeles. As a legislator, he chaired the Banking, Revenue and Taxation and Budget Committees and was a leader in promoting education reform and children's health and safety measures.
He subsequently served in the Clinton Administration as managing director and chief operating officer for the Corporation for National and Community Service, the agency that sponsors the Americorps volunteer service program, and from 1998 to 201 he was the nation's 17th Secretary of the Army, the first Hispanic ever to serve in this position.
Since 2001, Caldera has worked in higher education, first as vice chancellor of the California State University system, then from 2003 to 2006, as president of the University of New Mexico (UNM). He is currently part of the faculty of the UNM School of Law where he is a tenured professor.
"I admire Louis' dedication to public service and his commitment to education," said Clinton. "I am honored to receive his support and I know that he will work tirelessly on my behalf to help bring our message of change across the country."
  