
    "Mitt Romney's latest political pandering proves yet again he is merely a candidate of convenience. Mitt's ever-changing positions and negative attacks scream of a losing candidate who has spent millions of his own money only to find Republican voters want something he cannot buy — true leadership."
— Katie Levinson, Communications Director
MITT AND HILLARY HAVE IDENTICAL STANCES
On "It Takes A Village"
Clinton: "When I Am Talking About 'It Takes A Village', I'm Obviously Not Talking Just About Or Even Primarily About Geographical Villages Any Longer, But About The Network Of Relationships And Values That Do Connect Us And Binds Us Together." (Hillary Clinton, Speech At Harvard's Kennedy School Of Government, Cambridge, MA, 10/4/96)
Romney: "Hillary Clinton Is Very Much Right, It Does Take A Village, And We Are A Village And We Need To Work Together In A Non-Skeptical, Non-Finger-Pointing Way…" ("For City Problems, Future Solutions," The Boston Globe, 3/1/98)
On Abortion
Hillary Clinton: "I Am And Always Have Been Pro-Choice, And … It Is Not A Right That Any Of Us Should Take For Granted." (Adam Nagourney, "Hillary Clinton Vows To Fight To Preserve Abortion Rights," The New York Times, 1/22/00)
Romney In 1994 Said He Believed "Abortion Should Be Safe And Legal In This Country; I Have Since The Time That My Mom Took That Position When She Ran In 1970 As A U.S. Senate Candidate." ("Excerpt From Debate By Kennedy And Romney," The New York Times, 10/26/94)
2002 Romney Campaign Website Stated He Would "Protect The Current Pro-Choice Status Quo," As "The Choice To Have An Abortion Is A Deeply Personal One. Women Should Be Free To Choose Based On Their Beliefs, Not The Government's." "As Governor, Mitt Romney would protect the current pro-choice status quo in Massachusetts. No law would change. The choice to have an abortion is a deeply personal one. Women should be free to choose based on their own beliefs, not the government's." (Romney For Governor Website, Accessed Via Internet Archive's Wayback Machine: http://web.archive.org/web/20021003090527/www.romney2002.com/issues/, Accessed 6/18/07)
On Roe V. Wade
Clinton: "I Am So Pleased To Be Here Two Days After The 32nd Anniversary Of Roe V. Wade, A Landmark Decision That Struck A Blow For Freedom And Equality For Women." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Remarks To The NYS Family Planning Providers, Washington, DC, 1/24/05)
Romney In 1994: "I Believe That Roe V. Wade Has Been The Law For 20 Years, That We Should Sustain And Support It, And I Sustain And Support That Law And The Right Of A Woman To Make That Choice." ("Excerpt From Debate By Kennedy And Romney," The New York Times, 10/26/94)
On The Morning After Pill
Clinton: "I Am hopeful That The FDA Will Come To Its Senses And Announce A New Policy Making Plan B [Emergency Contraception] Available …. Emergency Contraception [Is] A Basic Tool That Could Help Rape Victims Prevent The Trauma Of Unintended Pregnancies, Avoid Abortions, And Safeguard Their Reproductive And Mental Health." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, Remarks To The NYS Family Planning Providers, Washington, DC, 1/24/05)
Romney In 1994: "My Understanding Is It's An Effective Morning-After Pill, And I Think It Would Be A Positive Thing To Have Women Have The Choice Of Taking The Morning-After Pill … I Would Favor Having It Available." (Andrew Miga, "Romney Leans Toward Abort Rights Camp," Boston Herald, 5/19/94)
On The NRA
Hillary Clinton: "When The NRA Says Jump, Too Many Members Of Congress Say, 'How High?'" (Steve Turnham, "Gunfight," CNN.com, 2/26/04)
Romney In 1994: "I Don't Line Up With The NRA." (Scott Helman, "Romney Retreats On Gun Control," The Boston Globe, 1/14/07)
On Gun Control
Clinton: "I Think [We Need To] Think Hard About What We Can Do To Make Sure We Keep Guns Out Of The Hands Of Children And Criminals And Mentally Unbalanced People." (Editorial, "Beware Of Those With Easy Answers," Boston Herald, 7/31/99)
Romney On Gun Control In 2002: "We Do Have Tough Gun Laws In Massachusetts. I Support Them. I Won't Chip Away At Them. I Believe They Help Protect Us And Provide For Our Safety." (Massachusetts Gubernatorial Candidates Debate, Springfield, MA, 9/24/02)
On The Path To Citizenship For Illegal Aliens
Clinton: "I'm In Favor Of Comprehensive Immigration Reform, Which Includes Tightening Our Border Security … Getting The 12 Million Or So Immigrants Out Of The Shadows." CLINTON: "I'm in favor of comprehensive immigration reform, which includes tightening our border security, sanctioning employers who employ undocumented immigrants, helping our communities deal with the costs that come from illegal immigration, getting the 12 million or so immigrants out of the shadows. That's very important to me. After 9/11, we've got know who's in this country. And then giving them a chance to pay a fine, pay back taxes, learn English, and stand in line to be eligible for legal status in this country." (MSNBC's 2008 Democratic Primary Presidential Debate, Orangeburg, SC, 4/26/07)
In March 2006, Romney Said He Did Not Believe In "Rounding Up 11 Million People And Forcing Them At Gunpoint From Our Country." "Romney said illegal immigrants should have a chance to obtain citizenship. 'I don't believe in rounding up 11 million people and forcing them at gunpoint from our country,' Romney said. 'With these 11 million people, let's have them registered, know who they are. Those who've been arrested or convicted of crimes shouldn't be here; those that are here paying taxes and not taking government benefits should begin a process towards application for citizenship, as they would from their home country.'" (Evan Lehmann, "Romney Supports Immigration Program, But Not Granting 'Amnesty,'" Lowell [MA] Sun, 3/30/06)
On Stem Cell Research
Clinton: "I've Worked On Helping To Boost Funding For Research To Look For Cures And A Way To Prevent So Many Devastating Diseases. And We Know That Stem Cell Research Holds The Key To Our Understanding More About What We Can Do." (Sen. Hillary Clinton, "Statement Of Hillary Clinton On Veto Of Stem Cell Legislation," Press Release, 6/21/07)
In 2002, Romney "Endorsed Embryonic Stem Cell Research, Saying The Controversial Science Might One Day Help Treat His Wife's Multiple Sclerosis In Addition To Numerous Other Degenerative Diseases." (Raja Mishra, "Romney Endorses Stem Cell Research," The Boston Globe, 6/14/02)
On Sex Education
"[Hillary Clinton] Has Championed The Prevention First Act, Which … Provides A Dedicated Funding Stream For Age-Appropriate, Medically Accurate, Comprehensive Sex Education." (Hillary For President Website, "A Champion For Women," http://www.hillaryclinton.com/issues/women/, Accessed 10/19/07)
In A 2002 Questionnaire, Romney Said He Supported "The Teaching Of Responsible, Age-Appropriate, Factually Accurate Health And Sexuality Education." (Scott S. Greenberger, "Roe V. Wade Omitted From Proclamation," The Boston Globe, 3/25/05)
On Domestic Partnership Rights
Clinton: "We Ought To Be Providing Domestic Partnership Benefits For People Who Are In Homosexual And Lesbian Relationships." (Phil Hirschkorn, "First Lady To Formally Announce Senate Candidacy In February," CNN.com, http://archives.cnn.com/2000/ALLPOLITICS/stories/01/11/hrc.announce/inde..., 1/11/00)
Romney In 2003: Domestic Partnership Benefits Would Be A "Hallmark Of My Leadership As Governor." (Rick Klein, "The Gay Marriage Ruling Spotlight On The Governor," The Boston Globe, 11/20/03)
On The Employment Non-Discrimination Act (EDNA)
Clinton: I Think We Need To Try To Move ENDA Forward. I Think ENDA Is Such An Important Legislative Goal … I Think It's A Vehicle For Widening The Circle Of Rights And Freedoms And Responsibilities And I Would Really Focus On Trying To Get That Passed." (Paul Schindler, "A Conversation With Hillary Rodham Clinton," The Advocate, http://www.planetout.com/news/feature.html?sernum=142, 10/5/00, Accessed 10/19/07)
In 1994, Romney Assured Log Cabin Republicans He Would Seek "Full Equality For America's Gay And Lesbian Citizens" And Would "Provide More Effective Leadership" Than Sen. Ted Kennedy On The Issue. "Shortly after he won the GOP nomination to run against US Sen. Edward M. Kennedy, conservative businessman Mitt Romney – who is viewed with suspicion by some gays – wrote to the Log Cabin Club, a group of politically active gay Republicans, to assure them that 'as we seek to establish full equality for America's gay and lesbian citizens, I will provide more effective leadership than my opponent.' The group has since endorsed Romney." (Don Aucoin, "Gays Split In Governor Race," The Boston Globe, 10/17/94)
Romney Supported ENDA And Said He Would Fight "Discrimination Of Any Kind," Including Based On "Sexual Orientation." "The Romney campaign declined to respond either to the Democrats or Lakian, but issued a statement from Romney saying he respected 'all people regardless of their race, creed, or sexual orientation' and was committed to fighting 'discrimination of any kind.' Noting that he supported federal legislation banning any workplace discrimination against gays, Romney said he looked forward to meeting with groups or individuals to discuss his positions." (Scot Lehigh and Frank Phillips, "Romney Under Fire For Talk," The Boston Globe, 7/16/94)
In 2002, Romney Released A Flier Stating That "All Citizens Deserve Equal Rights, Regardless Of Their Sexual Preference." "One is a photograph of a pink flier that Romney aides distributed at a gay pride march in Boston in 2002. 'Mitt and Kerry wish you a great Pride Weekend!' the flier states. 'All citizens deserve equal rights, regardless of their sexual preference.'" (Michael Levenson, "Activist Rains On Romney's Parade," The Boston Globe, 1/22/07)
On Gays In The Military
Clinton: "Fitness To Serve Should Be Based On An Individual's Conduct And Not Sexual Orientation." (Greg McDonald, "Clinton Admits 'Don't Ask, Don't Tell' Policy For Gays In Military Failed," The Houston Chronicle, 12/12/99)
In 1994, Romney Supported "Don't Ask, Don't Tell," But Noted That It Must "Ultimately Lead To Gays And Lesbians Being Able To Serve Open And Honestly" In The Military. "Clinton's don't ask/don't tell policy on gays in the military is a fine first step, Mitt muses, but must 'ultimately lead to gays and lesbians being able to serve openly and honestly in our nation's military.'" (Don Feder, Op-Ed, "Romney: A Thin-Gruel Republican," Boston Herald, 10/20/94)
On Campaign Finance Reform
Hillary Clinton Spokesman: "Like Many Republicans And Democrats, [Clinton] believes It's Important To Have A Level Playing Field And Observe The Rules Of Campaign Finance. She Also Strongly Supports McCain-Feingold Campaign-Finance Reform Legislation." (Kenneth R. Bazinet, "Sen. Clinton Taking Soft Money, For Now," Arkansas Democrat-Gazette, 4/10/01)
During 1994 Campaign, Romney Criticized The Influence Political Contributions Have On A Politician's Actions In Office. "During remarks before the Burlington (Mass.) Business Roundtable in 1994, Romney spoke like the committed reformers who later enacted sweeping national reforms in Congress. 'I understand Ted Kennedy will spend about $10 million to be reelected – he's been in 32 years, $10 million. I think that's wrong because – and that's not his own money, that's all from other people,' Romney said during the 1994 presentation, which was aired by C-SPAN. 'And to get that kind of money you've got to cozy up as an incumbent to all the special-interest groups who can go out and raise money for you from their members. And that kind of relationship has an influence on the way you're gonna vote.'" (Alex Bolton, "Romney's About-Face On Campaign Funding," The Hill, 2/8/07)
"Romney Also Said He Advocates Spending Limits On Congressional Elections, Even Suggesting That The Current Race Against Sen. Edward M. Kennedy Should Have A $6 Million Spending Cap." (Frank Phillips, "Romney, Vowing To Live It, Touts Congress Reform Plan," The Boston Globe, 7/27/94)
In 2002, Romney Proposed Applying A 10% Tax On Privately Raised Political Contributions In Order To Publicly Fund Campaigns Under Massachusetts' Clean Elections Law. "Mr. Romney campaigned in favor of Clean Elections, which provides public money to candidates for state office who meet strict fund-raising requirements. But he suggested an alternative funding method. Instead of providing campaign funds from state coffers, his plan would tap 10 percent of the fund raising of candidates who choose to raise money privately." (Richard Nangle, "Clean Election Advocates Keep Pushing," [Worcester, MA] Telegram & Gazette, 11/14/02)
"The Clean Elections Law, Passed By Ballot Initiative In 1998, Provides Public Money To Candidates For State Office Who Agree To Strict Spending And Fund-Raising Limits." (Rick Klein, "Voters Mix The Message On Clean Elections," The Boston Globe, 11/12/02)
In 2004, Romney Said Massachusetts Democrat Party Call For Voluntary Spending Caps On Campaigns "Whining" And Suggested They Work Harder. "The head of the state Democratic Party is challenging Republicans to limit campaign spending on legislative races between now and Election Day. … On Monday, Romney defended the GOP's fund-raising push and said if Democrats are worried, they should ramp up their own fund-raising efforts. 'It's no time for whining. It's time for going to work. We need both parties to work hard, raise their money and go out and support their candidates,' he said." (Steve LeBlanc, "Democratic Chief Challenges State GOP To Campaign Spending Limit," The Associated Press, 9/21/04)
On Reforming Social Security
Clinton: "Social Security Is One Of The Greatest Inventions In American Democracy, And I Will Do Everything Possible To Protect And Defend It … The Risky Scheme To Privatize Would Cost Between $1 And $2 Trillion. That Would Undermine The Promise Of Social Security." (Editorial, "Clinton's Investment Advice," The New York Sun, 10/11/07)
Romney In 1994: "I Don't Think You Go Back And Rewrite The Contract The Government Has With People Who've Retired." "In other comments yesterday, Romney said he would not cut Social Security to meet his goal of balancing the federal budget. 'I don't think you go back and rewrite the contract the government has with people who've retired, but I do think there's a wide range of action we can take on entitlement programs: government pensions is one, our whole welfare system is another, and I think Medicare and Medicaid costs could be brought down by much more aggressive management.'" (Peter J. Howe, "Romney Recasts His Minimum-Wage Plan," The Boston Globe, 10/17/94)
On Health Care Plans
Health Policy Expert Michael F. Cannon: "The Aspect Of RomneyCare That Most Resembles HillaryCare Is Its Very Centerpiece … The Health Insurance 'Connector.'" (Michael F. Cannon, "What Mitt And Hillary Have In Common," National Review, 6/5/07)
Cannon: "The Left Is Now Thanking Romney For Making HillaryCare Respectable Again." (Michael F. Cannon, "What Mitt And Hillary Have In Common," National Review, 6/5/07)
Health And Welfare Policy Expert Michael Tanner: "There Is A Likening Of This Central Concept Of The Connector To Managed Competition, Which Was At The Heart Of The 1993 Clinton Health Care Proposal." (Glen Johnson, "A Year Later, Some Conservatives Question Romney's Health Care Plan," The Associated Press, 4/12/07)
Tanner: RomneyCare Is An "Unprecedented Expansion Of Government Power," And "In Essence, You Have Romney Embracing 'Hillarycare.'" (Glen Johnson, "A Year Later, Some Conservatives Question Romney's Health Care Plan," The Associated Press, 4/12/07)
Tanner: "Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney Has Embraced The Big-Government Approach … The Plan He Supported In Massachusetts Is A Variation Of HillaryCare. (Michael Tanner, "Ailing Party," National Review, 6/29/07
The Boston Globe's Lisa Wangsness Called Romney And Clinton's Healthcare Proposals "Strikingly Similar." "Key elements of Hillary Clinton's healthcare proposal are strikingly similar to the tenets of the health overhaul that Mitt Romney signed into law in Massachusetts last year. But you would never guess it from the broadsides he hurled yesterday against what he called 'Hillarycare 2.0' and described as 'a European-style socialized medicine plan.'" (Lisa Wangsness, "In Ways, Clinton Healthcare Plan Resembles Romney's Mass. Solution," The Boston Globe, 9/18/07)
MIT Professor And Former Romney Healthcare Advisor Jonathan Gruber Said "Hillary's Plan Is Just Like The Massachusetts Plan." "'Hillary's plan is just like the Massachusetts plan. There's not a whole lot of difference,' said Jonathan Gruber, a Massachusetts Institute of Technology economics professor who was an adviser to Romney on the state's health care reform law." (Jason Szep, "Romney, Clinton Health Care Plans Similar – Experts," Reuters, 10/5/07)
Reuter's Jason Szep Pointed Out That Both Plans Entail Subsidies And Government Regulations And Added Both Include An "Individual Mandate." "Like Clinton's plan, the law Romney signed in April 2006 is underpinned by an 'individual mandate' compelling people to buy health insurance. Both plans entail subsidies and government regulations. For those in Massachusetts earning less than the federal poverty level of $9,800, free coverage is provided." (Jason Szep, "Romney, Clinton Health Care Plans Similar – Experts," Reuters, 10/5/07)
London's Financial Times Called RomneyCare "Similar To What Several Democrats Are Proposing." "All the Democratic presidential candidates have plans for universal or near-universal health coverage. An issue that not long ago was regarded as toxic for the party – especially for Hillary Clinton, whose effort to reform healthcare during her husband's presidency was a debacle – is beginning to look poisonous for Republicans. As governor of Massachusetts, Mitt Romney implemented a scheme for universal coverage similar to what several Democrats are proposing." ("Reform Is Coming To US Healthcare," Financial Times, 10/1/07)
RomneyCare's "Key Architect," MIT Professor Jonathan Gruber, Has Consulted With Sen. Hillary Clinton's (D-NY) Campaign. "[Jonathan Gruber] also has consulted with the presidential campaigns of Sens. Barack Obama, D-Ill., and Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y., and former senator John Edwards, among others." (Sean Higgins, "Key Mass. Health Plan Architect," Investor's Business Daily, 7/31/07)
Hillary Clinton Called RomneyCare "Commendable." "The proposal, approved Tuesday by Massachusetts' Democratic-led Legislature, won Romney cautious praise from Democrats, including a longtime champion of health care overhaul: Sen. Hillary Rodham Clinton of New York. 'To come up with a bipartisan plan in this polarized environment is commendable,' said the former first lady, who led President Clinton's failed health care campaign." (Ron Fournier, "Romney's Health Care Plan Draws Praise From Hillary Clinton, Talk Of '08 Bid," The Associated Press, 4/5/06)
RomneyCare's "Key Architect," MIT Professor Jonathan Gruber, Has Said He'd Like To See RomneyCare Become A National Plan. "A professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Gruber was a key architect of the state's universal coverage law, which fully came into force on July 1. It was the top accomplishment of Republican Gov. Mitt Romney's administration. His basic idea is to take that approach nationwide. That would require a mandate that people get insurance but provide generous subsidies for the poor to get insured. Businesses that don't offer coverage would be penalized. Federal programs like Medicaid would be expanded." (Sean Higgins, "Key Mass. Health Plan Architect," Investor's Business Daily, 7/31/07)
And Gruber Has Consulted With Sen. Hillary Clinton's (D-NY) Campaign. "[Jonathan Gruber] also has consulted with the presidential campaigns of Sens. Barack Obama, D-Ill., and Hillary Clinton, D-N.Y., and former senator John Edwards, among others." (Sean Higgins, "Key Mass. Health Plan Architect," Investor's Business Daily, 7/31/07)
  