
    Pool Reports by Niels Lesniewski, CQ Roll Call



Sent:
Reports:




 October 27, 2020 10:16

 In-town pool report #1 
Good morning from the White House where both the in-town and out-of-town pools have received tests for COVID-19.
We expect the President to depart here via Marine One at 12:30 p.m., for campaign travel to Michigan, Wisconsin and Nebraska. 


 October 27, 2020 12:16

 In-town pool report #2 
?Pool is gathering for the president's departure, which is scheduled for 12:30 p.m.
I spent part of the morning standing in the driveway watching staffers coming and going from the EEOB, and I would say that mask-wearing on the part of White House personnel has been inconsistent at best, even when in groups. 


 October 27, 2020 12:55

 In-town pool report #3 
?President Trump emerged from the White House at 12:53 p.m. and started to address reporters about the Supreme Court confirmation.
He is now speaking about President Obama and Vice President Biden ... 


 October 27, 2020 13:04

 In-town pool report #4 -- comments on election, COVID 
?The president made brief comments in response to questions about the 2020 election and the COVID-19 response.
He predicted a stimulus deal after the election, when he predicted that the Republicans would take back the House.
He said that he didn't think it was within American laws to be counting ballots for weeks after the election.
After walking over to greet visitors, he boarded Marine One right around 1 p.m., followed by aides including Chief of Staff Mark Meadows and senior adviser Jared Kushner.
Marine One was wheels up at 1:03 p.m. Will send quotes shortly, but as always check tape and transcripts. 


 October 27, 2020 13:37

 In-town pool report #5 -- some quotes and video link 
?C-SPAN has posted the pool video faster than I have been able to transcribe.
https://www.c-span.org/video/?477420-1/president-trump-departs-white-house
The brief comments about former President Obama and former Vice President Biden were more focused on Fox News coverage of the Democrats.
"I only saw he was on Fox, and Fox puts him on all the time and they put sleepy Joe on all the time."
"Fox is very very disappointing," Trump said. "This would not happen with Roger Ailes, I can tell you that."
Newsworthy comments regarding stimulus from my own tape, check against transcript:
"After the election, we're going to have the best stimulus package ever, because I think we're going to take back the House."
"We'll take back the House, we'll hold the Senate, we'll hold the White House. You look at the polls that came out today and yesterday, I guess a lot had to do with the debate or a lot had to with the rallies, I don't know, but you take a look at the polls."
"Look how we're doing in Wisconsin, look how we're doing in Iowa, look how we're doing in Ohio, look how we're doing in Florida. Look how we're doing everywhere, practically."
"It would be very proper and very nice if a winner were declared on November 3rd, instead of counting ballots for two weeks, which is totally inappropriate and I don't that that's by our laws," Trump said. "We'll see what happens."
The president then spoke about the coronavirus response.
You should see from the out-of-town pool that the president spoke on other topics at Joint Base Andrews. 


 October 27, 2020 14:03

 In-town pool report #5a -- more complete quotes 
?After reviewing the video feed with better audio, sending along these quotes.
Still check against the transcript, but these are more complete than the rough quotes in pool report #5.
"After the election, we'll get the best stimulus package you've ever seen, because I think we're going to take back the House because of her," the president said, referring to Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
"We'll take back the House, we'll hold the Senate, we'll hold the White House. If you look at the polls that came out today and yesterday, and I guess a lot had to do with the debate or a lot had to with the rallies, I don't know, but you take a look at the polls. Look how we're doing in Wisconsin, look how we're doing in Iowa, look how we're doing in Ohio, look how we're doing in Florida. Look how we're doing everywhere, practically."
"It would be very very proper and very nice if a winner were declared on November 3rd, instead of counting ballots for two weeks, which is totally inappropriate and I don't believe that that's by our laws. I don't believe that," Trump said. "So, we'll see what happens." 




Pool Reports by Eli Stokols, Los Angeles Times



Sent:
Reports:




 October 27, 2020 13:29

 Out of town pool report #1 — JBA comments and departure 
?Hello from Joint Base Andrews and the beginning of a three day journey.
Marine One touched down at 1:12 p.m. POTUS stepped off, followed by FLOTUS, at 1:16 and both walked over to Air Force One, where he stopped to take questions under the wing.
Please check all quotes against transcript as it's pretty loud down there.
He said he's got a "big day of rallies" and that FLOTUS was headed to Pennsylvania."I'd like to go with her," he said.
On the campaign outlook: "Our poll numbers are phenomenal, not the fake poll numbers."
Asked it he wants Google to be split up, he said"they've hurt themselves very badly. They're so restrictive" and called it "a very sad era for the media and especially for Big Tech."
Asked if he expected more Gulf states to sign on to agreements normalizing relations with Israel, he predicted: "I think we'll have all of them" but said it'd be "after the election."
On why he's campaigning in Nebraska later tonight: "We've got Omaha, which is right next to Iowa...that something that a lot of Republicans don't get. I'd like to get it."
He also said "it's been a while" since he's spoken to Xi Jinping. Asked by Jeff Mason "how do you expect to punish China?" — he responded, "I'm not going to tell you, Jeff."
Then he turned away with FLOTUS, waiting until an SUV pulled up to take her to another plane.
He then boarded AF1 using the main stairs at 1:23 p.m.
Spotted boarding AF1: Meadows, Kushner, Scavino. Judd Deere also on board.
We are rolling at 1:27 and about to be wheels up for Lansing, MI, where POTUS will be holding the first of three campaign rallies today en route, ultimately, to Las Vegas, where we will overnight. 


 October 27, 2020 14:54

 Out of town pool report #2 — Lansing, MI 
AF1 was wheels down at Capital Region International Airport at 2:44 p.m. Eastern and taxied to a stop a few hundred feet from the stage, surrounded by rally attendees and some large American flags hung from cranes to the sides.
The weather is inclement — 37 degrees, steady rain.
During the flight, the televisions in the cabin were tuned to Fox News, which broadcast Joe Biden's remarks live from his campaign event in Warm Springs, GA.
We are deplaning now and getting in place for the rally, which will be available on a number of live-streams and perhaps cable TV.
Appears POTUS will be taking an SUV from the plane to the rally—we may not see him deplane. 


 October 27, 2020 15:11

 Out of town pool report #3 — Lansing rally underway 
POTUS was announced at 3:03 p.m. as his black SUV rolled across the tarmac and up to the stage. Wearing his navy overcoat and black gloves but no hat, he took the stage at 3:06 as "God Bless the USA" played.
A light rain continues to fall on a the large crowd, all of whom are uncovered. Those near the press pen said they've been waiting here for five hours.
Remarks available via livestream. 


 October 27, 2020 16:20

 Out of town pool report #4 — rally wraps 
?POTUS began speaking at 3:08 p.m. and concluded at 4:17, with a very light rain falling throughout. "YMCA" for the walk-off.
Remarks were live-streamed but, in case it wasn't visible on some broadcasts, Trump tossed to a five-minute video compilation of Biden statements on trade and fracking that included clips from Democratic primary debate arguments with Sen. Bernie Sanders, the exchange from last week's debate over fossil fuels and a number of cable news snippets.
He referenced Gov. Gretchen Whitmer at least four times, acknowledged the frigid conditions and what the rain might be doing to his hair but tossed his hat into the crowd saying he was "trying to keep up with the tough people of Michigan," gave an enthusiastic endorsement of GOP senate candidate John James and told women: "We're getting your husbands back to work." Among other things.
A good many people left a bit early but most stayed to the end.
We are heading back across the tarmac to AF1 now. SUVs parked backstage to bring POTUS over the plane when he's finished. 


 October 27, 2020 16:28

 Out of town pool report #5 — rolling for WI 
? POTUS opted to walk from the stage back to AF1, as the Beast rolled beside him. He climbed the front steps, clapped and waved back to the crowd, and boarded at 4:22 p.m.
Pool also spotted Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany walking behind POTUS on the tarmac.
Here is the latest handout left for the pool on our seats in the press cabin:
Rolling momentarily for the La Crosse, WI airport and rally no. 2 in West Salem. 


 October 27, 2020 17:46

 Out of town pool report #6 — WI arrival 
??AF1 was wheels up from Lansing, MI at 4:33 p.m. Eastern and wheels down at La Crosse, WI at 4:28 Central. Weather here: 37 and sunny.
POTUS, in overcoat and gloves, stepped down the main stairs at 4:43; he spoke briefly with a few greeters (info below) from a couple feet away — no handshakes — pumped his fist and got into the Beast.
Spotted deplaning from the back stairs: Meadows, McEnany and Stephen Miller.
We are loading into vans now and headed to the rally site, a speedway which is about 15 minutes away.
The President is met by:
Stephen LoehrWisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce Chairman
Michael NikolaiWisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce Vice Chairman
Scott ManleyWisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce Executive Vice President
Nicholas NovakWisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce Vice President
Wade GregoryWisconsin Manufacturers & Commerce Vice President 


 October 27, 2020 18:15

 Out of town pool report #7 — speedway arrival 
?Motorcade arrived at MotorSports Management Company in West Salem at 5 p.m. after a 14-minute drive from the airport, passing some scattered groups of bundled-up Trump supporters waving from the roadside.
Trump took the stage at 5:09 to "God Bless the USA" after two slow laps around the racetrack.
Bleachers along the east side of the racetrack are mostly full. He is speaking from a lectern on a stage on the track facing the infield, where more supporters are gathered. The glare of the setting sun is over his left shoulder.
The president's remarks, as always, will be widely available online. 


 October 27, 2020 19:11

 Out of town pool report #8 — WI rally wraps 
? With the temperature dropping down to 32, POTUS seemed to push through his remarks a bit more quickly than earlier.
He wrapped his remarks at 6:05 after 55 minutes to "YMCA."
He again played the video of Biden clips and began with a reference to overnight events: "Last night Philadelphia was torn up by some Biden supporting rioters," he said before his usual lines about "the left wing mob" and several references to Kenosha.
He also reprised an attack from yesterday on AOC, asking the crowd: "Did she go to college? Tell me, I don't know."
Motorcade rolling back to airport at 6:09. 


 October 27, 2020 19:33

 Out of town pool report #9 — wheels up from WI 
??Motorcade reached the airport in La Crosse at 6:24 p.m.
POTUS got out of the Beast at 6:28, raised a fist to the pool beneath the wing, and boarded using the main stairs.
Here is the latest handout placed on seats in the press cabin, teasing a television interview:
We'll be wheels up shortly for Omaha. 


 October 27, 2020 21:01

 Out of town pool report #10 — wheels down Omaha 
AF1 was wheels up from LaCrosse, WI at 6:41 p.m. Central and wheels down at Omaha's Eppley Airfield at 7:48.
Kayleigh McEnany popped into the press cabin just as Tucker Carlson's show had come on at 8 p.m. Eastern, pointing at the monitors (chyron: "Exclusive: The Bobulinski Interview").
"You might want to watch," she said.
Taxiing now, will be getting set for the rally and are unlikely to see POTUS deplane.
As always, POTUS's remarks will be live-streamed and perhaps carried live on cable.
We've been warned the WiFi situation here may be less than perfect, so apologies in advance for any potential delays with the next pool report. 


 October 27, 2020 21:48

 Out of town pool report #11 — Omaha rally wrapping up 
POTUS took the stage at 8:05 and welcomed supporters from both Iowa and Nebraska. It is a big crowd enduring the 32 degree weather, although likely not quite the "29,000 people they tell me" he claimed several times.
"Some bad news just came out on Biden," he said, referencing the just ended Tucker Carlson broadcast. "You'll find out about it tomorrow."
But he returned to the topic minutes later, reading a brief synopsis of the interview with Tony Bobulinski from the teleprompter. It led, as such remarks often do, to a loud "lock him up" chant.
This rally also featured a video, but it was a different one than the one played at the day's first two rallies. It was economy- and police/race-focused. After it played, the monitors showed this phrase: "Donald Trump is PROTECTING our suburbs."
At one point, Trump called out White House physician Sean Conley, who he noted is traveling with him today. "He loves it when I say his name," Trump said. "He has a big ego."
He also joked about speaking in 32 degree weather: "I'm standing here freezing. I ask you one little favor: get the hell out and vote."
POTUS is already wrapping his remarks at 8:47. Pool is packing up and scrambling back to AF1.
Apologies, too, to anyone who received the last pool report — and perhaps this one, but hopefully not! — multiple times. The WiFi network (name: "Where is Hunter?" / password: "10FORTHEBIGGUY") and cell service were largely non-functioning. 


 October 27, 2020 22:02

 Out of town pool report #12 — leaving Omaha 
Remarks wrapped at 8:52, making it a 47-minute speech.
As YMCA blasted, Trump and staff all walked back across the tarmac — several, including McEnany and Hope Hicks, appeared to be doing the dance to the song, spelling the letters out with their arms as they filed out of the staff tent behind the stage.
POTUS boarded at 8:57, waving briefly atop the stairs.
Latest press cabin handout:
Image removed by sender.Rolling shortly for Las Vegas, which is our RON. 


 October 28, 2020 0:21

 Out of town pool report #13 — Vegas arrival 
AF1 was wheels up from Omaha's Eppley Airfield at 9:06 p.m. Central time and wheels down at Las Vegas McCarran International at 9:07 Pacific (so a 1 hour, 59 minute flight).
Uneventful flight with the final innings of game six of the World Series (picked it up right when Kevin Cash pulled Ian Snell in the sixth) playing in the press cabin. Congratulations to all the Dodgers fans.
POTUS stepped off the plane at 9:19 and came slowly down the main stairs, waved and got into the waiting motorcade.
Rolling shortly to the RON. 


 October 28, 2020 0:58

 Out of town pool report #14 — RON and lid 
?Motorcade arrived at the RON at 9:40 p.m. local after a drive down the strip past a lot of curious onlookers. Pool remained in the van and did not see POTUS enter the RON.
We have a travel/photo lid. 



  