
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 15
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Stratford, CT.
In the afternoon, they traveled to Miami, FL, where they attended a fundraiser for senatorial candidate Hugh Rodham.
October 16
In the early morning, the President returned to Washington, DC.
October 17
In the morning, while on Air Force One en route to Albquerque, NM, the President had telephone conversations with King Hussein of Jordan and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel to congratulate them on the Israel-Jordan peace treaty and with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany to offer congratulations on his victory in Germany's national election.
In the afternoon, the President met with Latino leaders at the Albuquerque Convention Center. Following the meeting, he returned to Washington, DC.
The White House announced that the President has accepted the invitation of King Hussein of Jordan and Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel to participate in the signing ceremony for the Israel-Jordan peace treaty on October 26.
October 18
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended the Democratic National Committee Jewish Leadership Forum dinner at the Corcoran Gallery of Art.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jewell Jackson McCabe to be a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert H. McKinney to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Credit Standards Advisory Committee.
October 19
In the afternoon, the President traveled to New York City where he attended a congressional fundraiser. In the evening, he traveled to Boston, MA.
The President announced the appointment of George F. Dixon to the Federal Advisory Committee on Greenhouse Gas Emissions From Personal Motor Vehicles.
The President announced his intention to appoint Lori L. Zande as a member of the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board.
October 20
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Steven Pennoyer as U.S. Commissioner of the North Pacific Anadromous Fish Commission (NPAFC) and as U.S. Commissioner of the International Pacific Halibut Commission (IPHC).
October 21
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a fundraising breakfast for senatorial candidate Hugh Rodham at the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers building.
In the afternoon, the President held a news conference in the East Room.
In the evening, the President attended the Kennedy-King dinner at the Radisson Hotel in Alexandria, VA.
  