
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Communities across the land have formed partnerships—between disabled and nondisabled, labor and industry, employers and employees—to assure that disabled people might share fully in the American dream. There is a real need for such partnerships and for these ties to continue and expand.
Employers throughout the country are opening their doors to qualified disabled workers. This is happening not just because of existing laws, but because disabled men and women have been establishing such fine work records. Yet not all employers have opened their doors equally wide. We must therefore continue our efforts to find more and better jobs for people with disabilities.
Gains have also been made in education, training, housing, transportation and accessibility. We need to make the 1980s years in which disabled individuals achieve the greatest possible access to our society, maximum independence, and full opportunity to develop and use their capabilities.
The Congress, by joint resolution of August 11, 1945, as amended (36 U.S.C. 155), has called for the designation of the first full week in October each year as National Employ the Handicapped Week. Recognition of this special week presents the opportunity to dedicate ourselves to meeting the goal of expanded opportunity for disabled Americans.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning October 4, 1981, as National Employ the Handicapped Week. I urge all Governors, Mayors, other public officials, leaders in business and labor, and private citizens to help meet the challenge of the future in which all disabled Americans will participate fully in our country's many opportunities.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this second day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.

RONALD REAGAN
  