
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Since 1946, the National School Lunch Program has demonstrated a partnership between Federal, State, and local officials in providing nutritious low-cost and free meals to America's schoolchildren. Our commitment to the National School Lunch Program reflects our recognition of the importance of nutrition to our children's health and to our Nation's future.
Currently, the National School Lunch Program operates in more than 90 percent of the Nation's public schools and serves about 25 million lunches a day. Many of our children receive their only nutritious meal of the day at school. These school meals not only increase students' attention span and learning capabilities, but also improve their overall health. School lunches also teach children good dietary habits. Cafeterias become learning laboratories, putting into practice the classroom lessons learned by the students on the importance of nutrition to health and well-being.
There is no longer any question that diet is related to good health, and school meal programs should meet the Dietary Guidelines for Americans so that children get nutritious meals. Like preventive medicine, the value of school lunches will multiply and the benefits will last a lifetime. National School Lunch Week affords us the opportunity to take a fresh look at the National School Lunch Program to determine what changes are necessary in order to meet these dietary guidelines. We also can recognize health professionals, school food service personnel, teachers, principals, parents, community leaders, and others for their commitment to ensuring that the lunches served in their schools will provide the nutrition so important to young students.
In recognition of the contributions of the National School Lunch Program to the nutritional well-being of children, the Congress, by joint resolution of October 9, 1962 (Public Law No. 87-780), has designated the week beginning the second Sunday in October in each year as "National School Lunch Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 10, 1993, as National School Lunch Week. I call upon all Americans to recognize those individuals whose efforts contribute to the success of this valuable program.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  