
    The President today announced the appointment of nine persons as members of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation. They are:
A. OMIE BROWN, of Madison, Wis., a counselor at the University of Wisconsin counseling service and a founder of the Native American Indian Children's Advocacy.
JOSEPH A. BUONOMO, of Arlington, Mass., president-elect of the National Association for Retarded Citizens and executive vice president of F. L. Putnam stockbrokers.
LEONARD G. ESPINOSA, of Albuquerque, N. Mex., an attorney who is a strong advocate of the rights of mentally retarded citizens and is active in organizations such as the National Association for Retarded Citizens.
LILIA EVANGELISTA, Of the Bronx, N.Y., a pediatrician specializing in treating children with cerebral palsy, who is assistant clinical professor of pediatrics and rehabilitation at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and medical director of Lincoln Children's Evaluation and Rehabilitation Clinic.
LEIDA ILEANA COLLADO HERRELL, of Potomac, Md., an adviser on Hispanic affairs to the Montgomery County Government Department of Family Resources, previously a school psychologist.
ROBERT GREENE JORDAN, JR., of Germantown, Tenn., professor of pediatrics and child development at the University of Tennessee College of Medicine and director of the university's Child Development Center appointment).
WILLIAM L. McGOWAN, of Clifton Park, N.Y., president of the New York State Civil Service Employees Association and former chair of the Mental Hygiene Presidents' Association.
ANDERSON W. POLLARD, of Pasadena, Calif., community liaison officer with the child psychiatry and mental retardation program of UCLA's Neuropsychiatric Institute and a director of the American Association on Mental Deficiency and the Handicapped Early Childhood Assistance Program (reappointment).
VALAIDA SMITH WALKER, Of Yeadon, Pa., an associate professor and chairperson-elect of the department of special education at Temple University, formerly commissioner of mental retardation for the southeastern region for the Pennsylvania Department of Public Welfare.
  