
    "She is a model of strength and grace...and backs down from no opponent or challenge"
In the wake of a dominating debate performance last week, Kamala Harris is being endorsed by North Tahoe Dems Chair Coralin Glerum and Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe Leader Alan Mandell. Glerum is a leading northern Nevada Democratic leader and has been outspoken on issues relating to the environment, immigration, and equality.
Under her leadership, the North Tahoe Democrats helped turn Washoe County blue in 2018. Alan Mandell is a longtime leader of the Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe in northern Nevada and former chairman of the Pyramid Lake Tribal Council. Mandell's endorsement comes on the heels of Harris participating via video in the National Congress of American Indians and rolling out her plan to lift up Native American communities.
"Kamala Harris inspires me with her bravery, compassion, intellect and determination," said Coralin Glerum, North Tahoe Dems Chair. "She is a model of strength and grace, is proud of her lifelong commitment to the Democratic Party, and backs down from no opponent or challenge. Her prosecutorial experience is vital to call out and combat the rampant corruption in our current era. I'm humbled to endorse her candidacy for president of the United States and will do everything in my power to assist her campaign as we rescue the presidency and our nation."
"I'm proud to endorse Senator Kamala Harris," said Alan Mandell, Native American leader from the Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe. "Her record on Native issues and plan for Native communities speak volumes to her understanding and the kind of president she will be: a champion and fighter for the people."
As attorney general of California and U.S. Senator, she has stood side by side with Native communities and fought the climate crisis. In her campaign for president, she has released plans to honor tribal sovereignty and solve the climate crisis. As president, Harris will honor the United States' historic government-to-government relationship with Tribal Nations and invest in Native American communities to secure lasting prosperity. She will also ensure that those responsible for polluting our environment and spreading toxins in our air and water pay for the harm they have caused to public and environmental health.
Nevadans endorsing Kamala Harris today:
Alan Mandell, Native American leader from the Pyramid Lake Paiute Tribe
Coralin Glerum, North Tahoe Dems Chair
Nevadans who have previously endorsed Kamala Harris:
State Sen. Pat Spearman
State Sen. Joyce Woodhouse
State Sen. Melanie Scheible
Assemblywoman Sandra Jauregui
Washoe County Recorder Kalie Work
Clark County Commissioner Justin Jones
Las Vegas City Councilman Brian Knudsen
Helen Foley, former Nevada State Senator
Michon Martin, President of R&R Partners and former Deputy District Attorney in San Francisco
Francisco Aguilar, Las Vegas attorney and entrepreneur
Nancy Ayala, Las Vegas attorney
Brian Ayala, Las Vegas small business owner
Atiya Boddie, Las Vegas attorney and Emerge Nevada alumna
Blake Boles, Army combat veteran
Angelica Cervantes, mother of 1 October victim and gun violence activist
Alex Dixon, former president of the Las Vegas Urban League Young Professionals
Tanya Flanagan, African-American community leader and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Rev. Leonard Jackson, African-American community leader
Li'Shey Johnson, 1 October survivor and gun violence advocate
LeVerne Kelly, African-American community leader and member of Links Inc. and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.
Bryce Krausman, small business owner
Kurt Kuznicki, conservationist and public lands advocate
Jennifer M. López, community advocate
Joanie Lung, APIA community leader and small business owner
Rose McKinney James, clean energy leader
Chris Miller, former chairman of the Clark County Democratic Party
Lesley Miller, former board member of Nevadans for Background Checks
Stephanie Pizzoferrato, public school teacher and gun violence survivor
Bishop Bonnie Radden, faith leader
Eddie Ramos, President of Club Migrantes de Uruapan and Vice President of Fuerza Inmigrante (formerly COPAN)
Jose Rosas, President of Federación de Poblanos en Las Vegas
Areli Sanchez, Latinx community activist
Sanje Sedera, founder and former president of the Asian American & Pacific Islander Democratic Caucus
Janet Serial, chair of the Black Caucus of Washoe County and fellow Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. sister
Andrew Sierra, former College of Southern Nevada student body president
Larry Smith, founder and CEO of GFive Cultivation in Las Vegas
Carissa Snedeker, former first vice chair of the Democratic Party of Washoe County
Al B Sure, R&B singer and songwriter
Nelly Tobon, Latinx community activist
  