
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

October 14, 1990, marks the 100th anniversary of the birth of Dwight D. Eisenhower, the 34th President of the United States, the commander of Allied Forces in Europe during World War II, and one of this country's most distinguished statesmen and public servants. A small-town boy who proudly came from "the heart of America," Dwight Eisenhower earned a special place of honor in our history through his courageous and determined efforts to defend the universal cause of freedom. He also set a standard of leadership that other military professionals and elected officials have since strived to emulate.
Dwight Eisenhower's career began in our Nation's military. He graduated from the United States Military Academy at West Point in 1915, and later ranked first in his class at the Command and General Staff School, Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. As a staff officer, he served the Generals Fox Conner, John Pershing, Douglas MacArthur, and George Marshall.
During World War II, after serving as Chief of the War Plans Division of the War Department, Eisenhower was entrusted with the command of the Allied Forces landing in North Africa in 1942. At the end of 1943, he was named Supreme Allied Commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces in Europe. His leadership and example in that post animated the most successful wartime coalition in history and paved the way for an unprecedented military feat: the successful invasion of Normandy by land, sea, and air on June 6, 1944. In June 1945, one month after accepting the unconditional German surrender, Dwight Eisenhower returned home to a hero's welcome.
For 3 years after his return to the United States, General Eisenhower served as Army Chief of Staff. He then devoted his talent and energy to education, becoming President of Columbia University in June 1948. By December 1950, however, duty called again, and Eisenhower took leave from his academic post to become Supreme Allied Commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Organizing the defense forces of NATO member nations, he helped to lay a strong foundation for the Alliance. In 1952, upon accepting the Republican nomination for the Presidency and after more than 3 decades of distinguished service, Ike resigned from the military.
During his two terms as President, Dwight Eisenhower ably handled the tensions and uncertainties of the postwar era and administered policies leading to unprecedented growth and prosperity here at home. Crises in Suez, Berlin, and Lebanon tested his remarkable leadership abilities; yet, in each case, Eisenhower responded with characteristic courage and resolve. On the domestic front, Ike not only met challenges such as those of 1957 in Little Rock, Arkansas, but also helped to launch the Nation's civil space program and the Interstate Highway System. He also helped to balance the Nation's budget -- three times.
Even in retirement Ike continued to serve the Nation, generously accommodating those successors who sought his counsel and sharing with an attentive Nation his vies on matters of foreign policy. He died on March 28, 1969, but his legacy continues to enrich and inspire us.
How pleased Dwight Eisenhower would be to know that freedom's holy light, borne so bravely by American and Allied troops in battle, now burns brightly in countries that once suffered under the shadow of tyranny. Indeed, the positive developments we have witnessed around the world during the past year would not have been possible without his leadership at a critical moment in history. Neither would they have been possible withoug the vigilance, strength, and resolve of free nations, rooted in ideals Ike cherished.
In 1990, we do well to honor the memory of Dwight Eisenhower by rededicating ourselves to the principles he fought so hard to uphold. This great man himself once observed: We know -- and all the world constantly reminds us -- that the future well-being of humanity depends directly upon America's leadership. I say emphatically that this leadership depends no less directly upon the faith, the courage, the love of freedom, and the capacity for sacrifice of every American citizen, every home, every American community.
Today we can be greatful for the extraordinary example he set.
The Congress, by Public Law 101-258, has designated October 14, 1990, the 100th anniversary of his birth, as "Dwight D. Eisenhower Day" and has suthorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 14, 1990, as Dwight D. Eisenhower Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and activities in rememberance of his devotion to fredom and democracy and his many contributions to our Nation and the world.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  