
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) and Representative Lamar Smith (R-TX) will serve as the Congressional Co-Chairs of the Romney for President Advisory Committee on the Constitution and the Courts. As Congressional Co-Chairs, they will advise Governor Romney on the important legal matters and issues confronting Congress.
"There are few more uniquely qualified to provide counsel on judicial matters than Senator Hatch and Representative Smith. As former Chairman of their respective Judiciary committees, they have an invaluable perspective into the judicial confirmation process and constitutional matters. Their many years of service will be an incredible asset for our campaign," said Governor Romney.
With today's announcement, Senator Hatch said, "We need a President who will nominate men and women of exceptional experience who will uphold the rule of law. I am confident that Governor Romney will nominate distinguished men and women to serve on the federal bench."
Joining Senator Hatch, Congressman Smith said, "We need Governor Romney's strong leadership on judicial issues to ensure that our laws are properly enforced, and our law enforcement officials have the support they need. I look forward to working with him as one of his principal advisers on constitutional matters.
Background On The Advisory Committee On The Constitution And The Courts Congressional Co-Chairs:
Senator Orrin Hatch (R-UT) Is The Former Chairman Of The Senate Judiciary Committee. First elected to the Senate in 1976, Senator Hatch has fought to restrain spending and promote fiscal responsibility within the federal government. He has worked to make permanent the President's 2001 and 2003 tax cuts and reduce the regulatory burdens on businesses. Best known for his chairmanship of the Judiciary Committee, Senator Hatch participated in the confirmation hearings of eight of the nine current Supreme Court Justices and countless federal judges. He was also Chairman of the Labor and Human Resources Committee from 1981-1987. Senator Hatch is the eighth-most senior member of the Senate and fourth-most senior Republican.
Congressman Lamar Smith (R-TX) Is The Ranking Republican Member Of The House Judiciary Committee. Congressman Smith is a senior member of the Texas Congressional delegation and has represented south central Texas since 1987. He has shaped American public policy and left his imprint on national politics through a variety of leadership positions and by advancing dozens of pieces of key legislation. As the Ranking Republican Member of the House Judiciary Committee, he serves as a spokesman for the party and helps shape committee policy. Congressman Smith has been Chairman of three of the Judiciary Committee's five subcommittees: Intellectual Property, Crime, and Immigration. He was also selected to serve on both the Homeland Security Committee and the Science and Technology Committee. Congressman Smith previously served as Chairman of the Ethics Committee and currently is the Ranking Republican on the Ethics Task Force.
  