
    Thirteen years ago, as dawn was breaking in Beirut, Lebanon, a suicide-bomber drove a truck filled with explosives into a compound that housed American Marines. More than 240 Americans were killed by this single act of hatred. Almost simultaneously, a similar assault claimed the lives of dozens of French soldiers.
Now, in this place of repose and respect, representatives from over thirty nations join to honor these victims and all the others around the world who have lost their lives at the hands of terrorists. We remember the passengers of Pan Am Flight 103, whose journey ended in the skies over Lockerbie, Scotland. We remember the victims of the World Trade Center bombing, and the 168 innocent people—among them helpless children—who were murdered in Oklahoma City. We remember those Americans in Riyadh and Dhahran, Saudia Arabia, who gave their lives in service to our nation. And we remember those murdered on the streets of Tel Aviv, or poisoned in the Tokyo subway, or killed by a car bomb on Canary Wharf in London, or assaulted on an Army base near Belfast, and so many others who have suffered the pain and outrage of a terrorist attack.
This remembrance ceremony is a fitting tribute to the victims of terrorism worldwide, and I want to thank Carmella LaSpada and the "No Greater Love" organization for their steadfast commitment to honor and remember those victims, as well as the brave men and women who have died in service to America. For all the positive advances of our time, the threat of terrorism looms larger in a world grown ever closer. That is why we must work together with other nations more than ever to prevent terrorists from acting and to capture them if they do. And we are doing just that.
But just as important as the strength of our policies is the strength of our spirit. To the family members gathered at Arlington National Cemetery, I know that no words can comfort you for the loss of your loved ones. The passage of time will never erode the place they hold in your hearts. But let us move beyond our sorrow and anger to find joy in the memories of those we honor here. Let us give thanks for the lives they lived, find inspiration in all they achieved, and together strive to realize the shining dreams they left behind. Let us unite the community of civilized nations to stand up for freedom and stand against the scourge of terrorist violence.
BILL CLINTON
  