
    
  Senator Tom McClintock and other Republican Leaders to work for Thompson Campaign

McLean, VA - Today, at a press conference in Sacramento, California, Senator Fred Thompson announced State Senator Tom McClintock as his California State Chair as well as eleven other Republican legislators who will serve as state co-chairs.
First elected to the California State Assembly at age 26, Senator Tom McClintock has been involved in California state politics since the mid-1970s. He has served as Ventura County Republican Party Chair, state Assemblyman, state Senator, and is a former head of the Claremont Institute's Golden State Center for Policy Studies. He is widely considered the most recognized conservative politician in California and is a strong leader among social and fiscal conservatives within the state.
"Like many Americans, it has been a long time since I've felt that I could trust a presidential candidate to respect our Constitution, defend our borders, reduce the burdens of government on our families, and restore that uniquely American vision of individual freedom - and who at the same time has the natural ability to reach the millions of voters who feel that neither party stands for these principles any longer," said Senator McClintock. "For the first time in 20 years, I believe that such a candidate has stepped forward. And I am here today to pledge my whole-hearted support for Fred Thompson's candidacy for President of the United States."
"I am so pleased to have Senator Tom McClintock serving as my California State Chair. Tom and I share a mutual belief in the fundamental role of government and the common sense conservative principles of low taxes, border security, and the protection of life," said Senator Thompson. "I am also proud to have these other Republican leaders serving my campaign and look forward to working with them and Senator McClintock in spreading our message of consistent conservatism across California and throughout the nation."
In addition to Senator McClintock, the following California Republican leaders will serve as State co-chairs:
Senator Sam Aanestad has served in the California State Legislature since 1998. He was named 2006 California Charter School Legislator of the Year and while in the Senate has fought for new job and business creation.
Senator Jim Battin is a former local television executive who was first elected to the State Assembly in 1994 before being elected to the Senate in 2000. A firm advocate for government reform and accountability, Senator Battin serves as the Vice-Chair of the Senate Elections, Reapportionment and Constitutional Amendments Committee.
Senator George Runner was first elected to the Senate in 2004. He and his wife, California Assemblywoman Sharon Runner, are the primary authors of California's Jessica's Law which created some of the toughest sex offender management and control laws in the nation. Senator Runner currently serves as the Chair of the Senate Republican Caucus.
Assemblyman John Benoit is a 31-year veteran of law enforcement who was first elected to the California State Assembly in 2002. Named the 2003 Outstanding Legislator of the Year by the California School Boards Association, he currently serves as the Chief Republican Whip.
Assemblyman Tom Berryhill was first elected to represent the 25th Assembly District in 2006. A strong advocate for California's public schools and universities, he currently serves as Chair of the Assembly Human Services Committee.
Assemblyman Chuck Devore served as a Reagan White House appointee in the Pentagon from 1986 to 1988 where he worked with the U.S. Congress to advance the President's foreign and military policy. First elected to the State Assembly in 2004, he serves as a Republican Whip and was recently named Legislator of the Year by the California State Commanders Veterans Council.
Assemblyman Bill Emmerson was elected to the California State Assembly in November 2004. He serves as the Vice-Chair of the Business and Professions Committee and sits as a member of the Assembly Approrpriations Committee and the Assembly Health Committee.
Assemblyman Martin Garrick served in numerous capacities in the Reagan Administration including as the Deputy Senate House Liaison. Serving the 74th district, Garrick is a strong advocate for tax and regulation reform.
Assemblyman Kevin Jeffries served as Chairman of the Republican County of Riverside County for seven years. Jeffries has 29 years of volunteer firefighting experience and over 19 years of experience in local California government.
Assemblyman Rick Keene began his service in the California State Assembly in 2002 where he has served in numerous leadership positions. A former Republican Whip and Vice Chair of the Committee on Water, Parks and Wildlife, Keene also served as the lead Republican on Budget for three years.
Assemblyman Alan Nakanishi is the former Mayor of Lodi, California, where under his leadership Lodi was heralded as a model city for energy planning. A former Lodi City Councilman and practicing physician, Assemblyman Nakanishi was first elected to represent the 10th District in 2002.
  