
    "I will work with the people in this room, as I have for the past four years, to champion a federal marriage amendment to protect marriage as the union of a man and a woman. ... Make no mistake: a federal amendment is the only way we can protect marriage from liberal, unelected judges." – Gov. Mitt Romney (Gov. Mitt Romney, Address To The Family Research Council's Values Voter Summit, 10/19/07)
THE ROMNEY VISION: CHAMPIONING A FEDERAL MARRIAGE AMENDMENT
Gov. Mitt Romney Will Continue To Fight For A Federal Marriage Amendment:
Gov. Mitt Romney Reaffirmed His Commitment To Pass A Federal Marriage Amendment At The Recent Values Voters Summit. "I will work with the people in this room, as I have for the past four years, to champion a federal marriage amendment to protect marriage as the union of a man and a woman. ... Make no mistake: a federal amendment is the only way we can protect marriage from liberal, unelected judges." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Address To The Family Research Council's Values Voter Summit, 10/19/07)
- "As It Happens, Only One Of The Leading Republican Candidates – Mitt Romney – Supports A Federal Marriage Amendment, Which Would Constitutionally Prevent Marriage Redefinition In The States." (Kathryn Jean Lopez, "Marriage And The GOP," Sacramento Bee, 9/14/07)

Gov. Mitt Romney Has Been Leading The Fight To Protect Traditional Marriage:
In 2004, Gov. Romney Called For A Federal Marriage Amendment In Testimony Before The Senate Judiciary Committee. GOV. ROMNEY: "We need an amendment that restores and protects our societal definition of marriage, blocks judges from changing that definition and then, consistent with the principles of federalism, leaves other policy issues regarding marriage to state legislatures." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Testimony, United States Senate Committee On The Judiciary, 6/22/04)
- Institute For Marriage And Public Policy President Maggie Gallagher: " Gov. Romney was in Washington, D.C., making the single most eloquent and articulate defense of our traditional understanding of marriage I have heard from an American politician." (Maggie Gallagher, "In Defense Of The Family," National Review Online, 6/25/04)

In A 2006 Letter To All 100 U.S. Senators, Gov. Romney Stressed Traditional Marriage As "The Ideal Setting For Nurturing And Developing Children." GOV. ROMNEY: "Our society, like all known civilizations in recorded history, has favored the union of a man and a woman with the special designation and benefits of marriage. In this respect, it has elevated the relationship of a legally bound man and woman over other relationships. This recognizes that the ideal setting for nurturing and developing children is a home where there is a mother and a father." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Letter To United States Senators, 6/2/06)
- Gov. Romney: The State-By-State Approach Is Wrong. "Some argue that our principles of federalism and local control require us to leave the issue of same sex marriage to the states, which means, as a practical matter, to state courts. Such an argument denies the realities of modern life and would create a chaotic patchwork of inconsistent laws throughout the country. ... Because of this, and because Americans conduct their financial and legal lives in a united country bound by interstate institutions, a national definition of marriage is necessary." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Letter To United States Senators, 6/2/06)

THE DEMOCRATS: "A CHAOTIC PATCHWORK OF INCONSISTENT LAWS"
The Democrats Oppose A Federal Marriage Amendment:
Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) Said She Was Involved In "Plotting Strategy To Beat The Federal Marriage Amendment." SEN. CLINTON: "When you and I were plotting strategy to beat the Federal Marriage Amendment, the reason we were plotting strategy is, we were worried it was going to pass." (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
Sen. Barack Obama (D-IL) Called The Federal Marriage Amendment "A Political Ploy." "Today, we should take this amendment only for what it is - a political ploy designed to rally a few supporters and draw the country's attention away from this leadership's past failures and America's future challenges." (Sen. Barack Obama, "Floor Statement Of Senator Barack Obama On The Federal Marriage Amendment," Press Release, 6/5/06)
Former Sen. Edwards (D-NC) Said He Has Been "Vigorously Against" The Federal Marriage Amendment. EDWARDS: "I don't think the federal government should be telling either states or our religious organizations what marriages they can and should bless. I don't think those are decisions that should be made by the federal government. I'm against the constitutional amendment, have been vigorously against it." ("Former Sen. John Edwards Participates In A Roundtable Discussion On Gas Prices," CQ Transcriptions, 5/31/07)
The Democrats Would Have 50 Different State Definitions Of Marriage:
Sen. Clinton Said That States Were "The Appropriate Place" For Decisions On Same-Sex Marriage. "'The states have always determined age of marriage, other conditions and over time we've gotten rid a lot of discrimination that used to exist in marriage laws,' [Clinton] said. 'That's now happening. People are making decisions. Civil unions, marriage. They're deciding in the states and I think that's the appropriate place for that to be.'" (Amy Lorentzen, "Presidential Candidates Focus On Gay Marriage After Iowa Ruling," The Associated Press, 9/1/07)
Sen. Obama "Believes These Matters Should Be Left To The States." "A spokesman for Democrat Barack Obama said the senator 'believes these matters should be left to the states, which is why he opposes the Defense of Marriage Act.'" (Amy Lorentzen, "Presidential Candidates Focus On Gay Marriage After Iowa Ruling," The Associated Press, 9/1/07)
Sen. Edwards Said That States Should Be In Control Of Their Own Marriage Laws. "On a recent ruling in Iowa where a Polk County judge ruled that the state's ban on gay marriage is unconstitutional, [Edwards] said states should be in control of their own marriage laws. 'I don't think there should be a federal constitutional ban on it,' he said." (Amy Lorentzen, "Edwards Says Doctor Visit Mandatory Under His Health Care Plan," The Associated Press, 9/2/07)
The Democrats Would Push For Civil Unions:
Sen. Clinton: "I Am Absolutely In Favor Of Civil Unions With Full Equality... Of Benefits, Rights, And Privileges." (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
Sen. Obama: "I Am A Strong Supporter Not Of A Weak Version Of Civil Unions, But Of A Strong Version..." (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
Sen. Edwards: "I Do Believe Strongly In Civil Unions And The Substantive Rights That Go With That. I Believe We Desperately Need To Get Rid Of DOMA." (Logo Network, Presidential Candidates Forum, Los Angeles, CA, 8/9/07)
  