
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of New Hampshire State Senator Gary Lambert (R-Nashua). Senator Lambert, a decorated military veteran, will help lead veteran outreach efforts in the Granite State. He joins State Senators Jeb Bradley (R-Wolfeboro), Jack Barnes (R-Raymond), Chuck Morse (R-Salem) and Jim Rausch (R-Derry) in endorsing Governor Romney's candidacy.
"Gary Lambert has served his country and his state with honor. As a member of the U.S. Marine Corps, he fought to preserve our freedoms. In the State Senate he has been an advocate for New Hampshire's low tax environment," said Mitt Romney. "I am proud to have earned his support and look forward to campaigning with him across the Granite State."
"As a successful businessman and a fiscally responsible governor, Mitt Romney has the experience needed to fix our broken government and turn around our struggling economy. He has laid out bold plans to create jobs, maintain a strong and robust military and to invest in the resources we need to care for our veterans," said Senator Lambert. "In 2012, Republicans need a strong and experienced leader to defeat President Obama and restore America's prosperity. That leader is Mitt Romney."
Background On State Senator Gary Lambert:
Gary Lambert was elected to the New Hampshire State Senate in 2010. He is the first Republican to represent State Senate District 13 in 94 years.
Senator Lambert retired as a Colonel in October 2009 after 30 years in the United States Marine Corps. During Operation Iraqi Freedom he served as the Deputy Staff Judge Advocate for the Multi-national Force at Camp Victory in Baghdad and as the President of the Iraqi Ministries of Justice, Interior and Human Rights' Detainee Review Board. He was awarded the Bronze Star Medal and the Iraqi Campaign Medal in 2005 for his service.
Senator Lambert has also been an active member in his community, serving on the board of the Greater Nashua Mental Health Center and volunteering his time with the Nashua Chamber of Commerce, the Nashua Rotary and the First Church of Nashua. He is a 1981 graduate of Valparaiso University and a 1984 graduate of Drake University Law School.
  