
    To empower our civil servants to best help others, the government must always operate more efficiently and more securely. --President Donald J. Trump
ENHANCING ACCOUNTABILITY: President Donald J. Trump is taking action to increase accountability for Federal employees who make substantive contributions to executive branch policy.

Today, President Trump signed an Executive Order giving Federal agencies more flexibility to hold career employees in critical positions accountable.
The order establishes a new classification within the Federal workforce titled "Schedule F" for employees serving in confidential, policy-determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating positions that are not normally subject to change as the result of a presidential transition.
Under the order, Federal agencies will have more flexibility to hire "Schedule F" employees and will also be able to remove them without going through a lengthy appeals process.
This action will enhance accountability for Federal employees who are responsible for making policy decisions that significantly affect the American people.

The order will not affect the Senior Executive Service.



RESTORING PROPER OVERSIGHT: Agencies should be given greater flexibility to address poor performance in these positions.

This order authorizes agencies to reclassify positions to better reflect their importance in developing and implementing policy.
Removing poor performers, even from these critical positions, is time-consuming and difficult.

The Government Accountability Office reports that it takes 6 months to 1 year to remove Federal employees for poor performance.
Surveys show career Federal employees have long been frustrated with the failure of their agencies to hold poor performers accountable.


Employees holding positions eligible to be reclassified as "Schedule F" should be held accountable for high performance, given their duties are vital for effective government operations.
The order also prohibits certain personnel actions against "Schedule F" employees, including actions on the basis of the employee's partisan affiliation, other protected characteristics, or because of the employee's status as a whistleblower.

IMPROVING FEDERAL RESPONSIVENESS: President Trump has worked tirelessly to promote an efficient and streamlined Federal bureaucracy.

President Trump has delivered on his promise to put in place commonsense reforms to ensure that the Federal Government better serves all Americans.
In 2018, the President issued three Executive Orders to enhance the efficiency of Federal operations and reform the civil service to better work for the American people.
The President signed game-changing legislation to bring accountability to the Department of Veterans Affairs and remove poor performers.
President Trump and his Administration are working to reform and modernize the Federal hiring process.

  