
    Today, a group of prominent disability rights and health care advocates endorsed Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for President and Vice President of the United States. In a video released by the campaign, the advocates cite President Trump's failed response to COVID-19, which has disproportionately affected people with disabilities, and highlight Joe and Kamala's plans to support people with disabilities and protect and expand access to health care. The group includes advocates who share Joe Biden's commitment to building a future that is inclusive and provides equal opportunity for all, including lifelong disability rights activist Judith Heumann, former CA Representative and co-author of the American Disabilities Act Hon. Tony Coelho, and the first Black Deaf attorney and Obama Administration appointee Claudia Gordon.
Watch the endorsement video HERE.
The complete list endorsing Joe Biden and Kamala Harris includes:

Hon. Tony Coelho, Disability Rights Activist and former Congressman
Rebecca Cokley, Disability Rights Activist 
Matthew Cortland Esq, Lawyer and Policy Analyst
Shannon DeVido, Comedian and Actor
Claudia Gordon, Esq, Disability Rights Activist
Judy Huemann, Disability Rights Activist
Elena Hung, Health Care and Disability Rights Activist; Co-founder and Executive Director of Little Lobbyists 
Mia Ives-Rublee, Disability Rights Activist
Janni Lehrer-Stein, Disability Rights Activist
Anna Perng, Disability Rights Activist
Liz & Phil Weintraub, Disability Rights Activists
Maysoon Zayid, Comedian, Actress and Disability Activist

"As the nation marks the 30th anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) this year, we honor the leadership of people with disabilities, like those endorsing today, disability advocates, and their allies for the progress towards the goals of this law—'equality of opportunity, full participation, independent living, and economic self-sufficiency' for people with disabilities," said Molly Doris-Pierce, Biden for President National Disability Engagement Director. "But, there is much more work to do in order to ensure that all people with disabilities are able to participate fully in our communities and enjoy the same kinds of choices and opportunities that many Americans take for granted. These leaders recognize Joe's commitment to work with the disability community to build a stronger, more expansive middle class so that everyone—regardless of race, gender, religion, sexual orientation, or disability—can find a place. We're honored to have their support."
Joe Biden's plan for full participation and equality for people with disabilities recognizes that all policies—ranging from climate change and the economy to education and housing— must be viewed through an inclusive lens. Joe Biden will ensure people with disabilities have a voice in their government and are included in policy development and implementation.That means amending laws, policies, and culture to ensure full inclusion of the 61 million individuals with disabilities in the United States in all parts of society.
With less than five weeks to go, these advocates are not just offering endorsements, but will lend their voices and their leadership to events organized by the Disability Coalition for Biden, including phone banks, voter turnout initiatives, and in other ways to build political power within the community, turn out the disability vote and elect Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
  