
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Johnstown, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Pennsylvania families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Pennsylvania the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus. 
The President's Paycheck Protection Program provided over $20.7 billion worth of loans to more than 173,000 Pennsylvania businesses and saved 1.8 million jobs.
6.5 million Pennsylvanians received Economic Impact Payments totaling nearly $11 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing Pennsylvania with up to $4.96 billion in assistance to deal with the outbreak and more than $1.25 billion so far to 12,661 health care providers in the state.

Pennsylvania's businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Pennsylvania's workers and businesses, and he will do it again.
Over the last four months, Pennsylvania added back 584,800 jobs following the economy's artificial interruptions from the China virus.
Pennsylvania added over 193,200 new jobs in the first three years of the Trump Administration, including more than 15,600 new manufacturing jobs. When Joe Biden was vice president, Pennsylvania lost 51,200 manufacturing jobs. 
In February, Pennsylvania's unemployment rate was just 4.7%. During the Obama-Biden Administration, the average unemployment rate in Pennsylvania was 7%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to add over 49,000 new Pennsylvania jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 300 Pennsylvania communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities. 

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America-First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Pennsylvania's economy: 

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Pennsylvania's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports more than $15 billion worth of goods to Canada and Mexico each year.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports 477,900 Pennsylvania jobs.
The USMCA will boost Pennsylvania's agricultural exports, helping the state's farmers and agriculture producers.

The deal will help Pennsylvania's 6,200 dairy farms by boosting their market access to Canada and eliminating Canada's unfair milk pricing program.


President Trump is defending Pennsylvania farmers and agricultural producers from China by providing more than $79 million in direct USDA payments to offset the damage of China's tariffs.

But Joe Biden's disastrous agenda will decimate Pennsylvania's recovering economy and undo President Trump's policies that help Pennsylvanians the most:

The trade deals that Joe Biden supported throughout his 44 years in office killed Pennsylvania jobs.

Pennsylvania lost 26,300 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden voted for.
Pennsylvania lost 317,600 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 136,100 Pennsylvania jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies would devastate Pennsylvania workers and businesses.

The oil, natural gas, and coal industries support nearly 370,000 Pennsylvania jobs and contribute $50 billion to the state's economy each year.
Pennsylvania is currently the nation's second largest natural gas producer, producing nearly one-fifth of all U.S. natural gas.
71% of Pennsylvania's homes use natural gas, propane, or fuel oil as their primary heating source, fuels that Joe Biden has pledged to "end."


Biden wants to eliminate fracking, which would destroy Pennsylvania's economy:

Pennsylvania's shale production alone supports an estimated 220,000 jobs, and a fracking ban would kill 609,000 Pennsylvania jobs and take $261 billion out of the state's economy.


Biden's embrace of radical, government-run health care endangers the private health insurance that 7.1 million Pennsylvanians rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 25 of Pennsylvania's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.


Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. More than 137,000 students are currently enrolled in 179 charter schools in the state. Roughly, 1 out of every 12 Pennsylvania public school students is enrolled in a charter school.

  