
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today unveiled its New York State Regional Vice Chairs.
The Vice Chairs are helping lead the effort in Giuliani's home state to build support and spread the Mayor's message, including his 12 Commitments to the American People.
"As New Yorkers, we are fortunate to have seen first-hand the leadership, conservative governance and real results Rudy achieved over his eight years as chief executive of one of the nation's largest governments," said Rudy Washington, Giuliani's New York City Chairman and former New York City Deputy Mayor. "These top-notch Republican leaders will ensure that voters throughout the state know he will bring results-driven leadership to our nation's capital."
"Mayor Giuliani's support in New York is truly a testament to his adherence to Republican values and his ability to work to get things done," said Guy Molinari, former Staten Island Borough President and Co-Chairman of Giuliani's New York State Campaign. "We are honored that these community leaders agree Rudy is the right man to be our next President."
About Rudy's New York State Regional Vice Chairs:
John DeSpirito III – East CentralDeSpirito is the Chairman of the Onondaga County Republican Committee. He is a Veteran of the U.S. Marine Corps who served in Vietnam and a small business owner.
Jim Domalgalski – Western New YorkDomalgalski, a trial attorney and partner of Hiscock & Barclay, LLC, is Chairman of the Erie County Republican Committee. He was previously chairman of the Orchard Park Republican Committee. He got his start in politics as a congressional intern to former Republican Congressman Jack Kemp.
Jay Dutcher – West CentralDutcher, a seventh-generation farmer in South Bristol, is Chairman of the Ontario County Republican Committee, an attorney at law, and has worked for the Department of Defense, the Department of the Navy, and the office of former Republican Congressman Bill Paxon.
Jim Ellis – North CountryEllis has been Chairman of the Franklin County Republican Committee for more than two decades. He is an ordained permanent deacon and a community assistance specialist for the Adirondack North Country Association. Ellis is a retired educator and a retired Captain in the U.S. Army.
Bill Hatch – Southern TierA life-long resident of Steuben County, Hatch is owner/operator of Hatch Enterprises and Staffing & Payroll Solutions, an elected official of the Howard Town Board, and Chairman of the Steuben County GOP. He is a retired Sergeant in the U.S. Marine Corps who served in Vietnam.
Don Leonard – South CentralA 6th-generation resident of the Town of Spencer, Leonard is chairman of the Tioga County Republican Committee and is a political consultant and retired Staff Sergeant in the U.S. Marine Corps.
John "Jasper" Nolan – Capital RegionJasper Nolan has been involved in Republican politics since the early 1960s. He is Chairman of the Saratoga County Republican Committee and a retired social studies teacher.
Vincent Reda – Hudson ValleyIn his 14 years as Rockland County Republican Committee Chairman, Vinnie Reda has taken the committee from virtually out of business to flourishing. Reda is also a legislative aide to New York State Senator Vincent Liebell and a Major in the New York State National Guard.
C. Scott Vanderhoef – Vice Chairman for County ExecutivesVanderhoef began his career in public service in 1972, when he worked in the administration of Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller. Vanderhoef was born and raised in Rockland County, and is an environmental attorney who is now serving his fourth term as County Executive – the highest elected office in Rockland County.
Harold J. Withers, Ph.D. – Long IslandHarry Withers has served in governmental and political positions in Suffolk County for more than 30 years. He is an adjunct professor at Stony Brook University and serves as Chairman of the Suffolk County Republican Committee.
Rudy Washington – New York City (previously announced)Washington, a native of Queens, was Deputy Mayor for Community Development and Business Services under Mayor Giuliani. Following the 9/11 terrorist attacks, Washington oversaw the delivery of heavy construction equipment for early rescue and recovery efforts at Ground Zero. Previously, Washington was nominated as board member for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority by Governor George Pataki, and in 2003, he was confirmed by the New York City Council as a member of the adjudicative body of the New York City Civil Service Commission.
  