
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Adam Gamoran - Member, Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences
•      Judith D. Singer - Member, Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences
•      James Timberlake – Member, Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences
President Obama said, "These men and women have demonstrated knowledge and dedications throughout their careers. I am grateful they have chosen to take on these important roles, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Adam Gamoran, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences
Adam Gamoran is the John D. MacArthur Professor of Sociology and Educational Policy Studies, Director of the Wisconsin Center for Education Research, and Associate Dean for Research in the School of Education at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He has been on the faculty of the University of Wisconsin-Madison since 1984. Dr. Gamoran served as interim dean of the School of Education from 2008 to 2009, and from 2001 to 2004, he served as chair of the department of sociology. Dr. Gamoran is an elected member of the National Academy of Education, and he has served on several committees of the National Research Council, including the Board on Science Education. He chairs the Independent Advisory Panel of the National Assessment of Career and Technical Education for the U.S. Department of Education, and he was appointed to the National Board for Education Sciences in 2010. Dr. Gamoran received his B.A., M.A., and Ph.D. from the University of Chicago.
Judith D. Singer, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences
Judith D. Singer is Senior Vice Provost for Faculty Development and Diversity and James Bryant Conant Professor of Education at Harvard University. She has been a member of the Harvard University faculty since 1984. From 1999 to 2004, she was Academic Dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education, and was its Acting Dean from 2001 to 2002. Ms. Singer's scholarship focuses on improving the quantitative methods used in social, educational, and behavioral research. Ms. Singer is an elected member of the National Academy of Education and a founding Board member of the Society for Research on Educational Effectiveness. She has also been honored with a fellowship at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences and elected to the initial class of Fellows of the American Educational Research Association. Ms. Singer holds a B.A. in Mathematics from the State University of New York at Albany and an A.M and Ph.D. in Statistics from Harvard University.
James Timerlake, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences
James Timberlake is a founding partner of the KieranTimberlake architecture firm. He is the co-author of five books on architecture, including refabricating ARCHITECTURE. In addition to his architectural practice, Mr. Timberlake teaches at the University of Pennsylvania's School of Design, where he leads a Design Research Laboratory that works across the disciplines of architecture, material science, and construction industries. KieranTimberlake has received the 2008 Architecture Firm Award from the American Institute of Architects (AIA) and the 2010 Cooper-Hewitt National Design Award from the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Timberlake also was awarded the Benjamin Latrobe Fellowship for architectural design research from the AIA College of Fellows in 2001 and the Rome Prize from the American Academy in Rome in 1982. Mr. Timberlake received a Bachelor of Environmental Science degree from the University of Detroit, and a Master of Architecture degree from the University of Pennsylvania.
  