
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The makeup of the United States of America is a diverse one, a rich tapestry of different cultures and ethnic origins, stronger and more vibrant because of its variety. The German culture contributes a substantial piece to the American mosaic, and German-Americans have given much to our Nation in the arts, the sciences, the business world, academia, and government. It is fitting that we celebrate these innumerable contributions to our great Nation by marking October 6 as "German-American Day."
The first German settlers arrived in America 310 years ago-- harbingers of the more than seven million to follow. German immigrants have thrived in America, finding our Nation's political and economic culture fertile ground for securing the inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for themselves and for their children. Today, citizens of German ancestry comprise the largest ethnic group in the United States.
German-Americans today look with pride to a free and unified Germany as the living symbol of the best in their heritage. Americans look with satisfaction at the enduring friendship between the Federal Republic of Germany and the United States of America. This friendship is rooted in a long line of immigrants and was replanted in the ashes of the Second World War and nurtured through the storms of national division and Cold War confrontation. Warmed by the benefits of peaceful commerce and strengthened by the myriad personal relationships between the German and American peoples, the friendship has flourished.
The United States and the Federal Republic of Germany face formidable challenges in the post-Cold War era, challenges that we approach with greater confidence because we stand together, united in common democratic values.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 121, has designated October 6, 1993, as "German-American Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that day.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 6, 1993, as German-American Day. I urge all Americans to learn more about the contributions of German immigrants to the United States in all fields of human endeavor and to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  