
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Waukesha, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Wisconsin families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Wisconsin the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program protected 1 million Wisconsin jobs by providing $9.9 billion worth of loans to over 89,000 Wisconsin businesses.
Nearly 3 million Wisconsinites received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $5 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing up to $2.2 billion worth of aid to the state and more than $471 million to 4,120 health care providers in Wisconsin.

Wisconsin businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership:

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Wisconsin workers and businesses.
In the last 5 months, Wisconsin added 262,900 jobs back following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus.
Wisconsin added more than 56,000 new jobs between President Trump's election and February 2020, including 15,000 new manufacturing jobs.
Before China unleashed the coronavirus on the world, Wisconsin's unemployment rate had fallen to just 3.5%. The average unemployment rate during the Obama-Biden administration was 6.5%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to create over 24,000 new Wisconsin jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 120 Wisconsin communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Wisconsin's economy:

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Wisconsin's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports $10.5 billion annually in goods to Canada and Mexico.

The USMCA will open up Canada's market for dairy exports, allowing Wisconsin's dairy producers to sell more milk and cheese.


President Trump is defending Wisconsin farmers and agriculture producers from China's unfair tariffs by providing nearly $350 million in direct USDA payments.

But Joe Biden's radical, far-left agenda will decimate Wisconsin workers and families:

The terrible trade deals that Biden supported during his 44 years as a career politician in Washington killed Wisconsin jobs.

Wisconsin lost 14,500 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden voted for.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 78,700 Wisconsin jobs.
Wisconsin lost 66,100 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.


Biden's radical energy policies and promise to "end fossil fuel" would devastate Wisconsin workers and businesses.

The oil, gas, and coal industries support more than 98,000 jobs in Wisconsin and contributes $8.7 billion to the state's economy annually.
Biden's fracking ban would kill 300,000 Wisconsin jobs, cost its economy $39 billion, and shrink revenues by $8 billion. This lost money would have to be made up with higher taxes.
Wisconsin is also an important manufacturer of fracking sand, an industry that would be devastated by a fracking ban.


Biden's government-run health care proposal endangers the private health insurance plans that 3.5 million Wisconsinites rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 26 of Wisconsin's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.


Joe Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. Over 42,000 Wisconsin students are enrolled in over 230 charter schools throughout the state.

  