
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Clifford L. Stanley, Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, Department of Defense
•      Scott Quehl, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary of Commercefor Administration, Department of Commerce
•      Anne Slaughter Andrew, Ambassador to the Republic of Costa Rica, Department of State
•      Lynnae M. Ruttledge, Commissioner, Rehabilitation Services Administration, Department of Education
•      Jill Long Thompson, Member, Farm Credit Administration Board
President Obama said, "I appreciate the dedication and expertise that these individuals have shown throughout their careers, and I am confident they will show the same commitment in these new roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Clifford L. Stanley, Nominee for Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, Department of Defense
Dr. Clifford L. Stanley recently served as the President of Scholarship America, the nation's largest nonprofit, private-sector scholarship organization. As President, Dr. Stanley provided leadership for over 50,000 volunteers in 42 states with a full-time staff of 160 men and women. Prior to assuming this position, Dr. Stanley served on the senior leadership team of the University of Pennsylvania as Executive Vice President. In that capacity, he served as Chief Operating Officer and was responsible to the president for the non-academic functions of the university, such as business, finance, facilities maintenance, and campus security. In 2002, Dr. Stanley retired from the United States Marine Corps with the rank of Major General. During his distinguished 33-year career, he served in a range of leadership positions including Deputy Commanding General, Marine Corps Combat Development Command, where he was responsible for all doctrine, organization, training and education in the U.S. Marine Corps; Commanding General of the Marine Corps Base at Quantico, Virginia; Commanding General, Marine Corps Air Ground Combat Center; and Director of Public Affairs, Marine Corps Headquarters. Dr. Stanley earned his Doctorate of Education Degree from the University of Pennsylvania's Graduate School of Education and holds a Masters degree in Counseling from The Johns Hopkins University and a Bachelors degree in Psychology from South Carolina State University.
Scott Quehl, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Administration, Department of Commerce
Scott Quehl is President of Quehl Advisors, LLC, and a Senior Managing Director at Public Resources Advisory Group, providing advice to state and local governments on capital market, budgeting, and management initiatives. Quehl served as Managing Director for Tax-Exempt Capital Markets at JPMorgan Securities, Inc. While a Managing Director at Public Financial Management, Inc., he served as a management and budget advisor to several local and state authorities. During his tenure at Public Financial Management, Quehl took a leave of absence to serve as acting, then permanent, Chief Financial Officer of the Metropolitan Police Department for the District of Columbia. In the Executive Office of the President of the United States, he served as a member of the Clinton Administration in the Office of Management & Budget, Office of Federal Financial Management. Before this, he served as The World Bank's Country Officer for the Dominican Republic in a consulting capacity, co-managed the development of Secondary Education Project for the Dominican Republic, and advised the Governments of Colombia and Bolivia on the decentralization of financial and management authority to sub-national governments. He also served as a Peace Corps Volunteer in Sabanagrande, Honduras. He has written articles and reports for The World Bank Group, Brookings Review, and Government Finance Review. Quehl holds a Master's in Government Administration from the University of Pennsylvania, Bachelor's in History and Political Science from Lawrence University, and held FINRA NASD Series 24, 63, and 7 licenses while at JPMorgan.
Anne Slaughter Andrew, Nominee for Ambassador to the Republic of Costa Rica, Department of State
Anne Slaughter Andrew is currently the Principal of New Energy Nexus, LLC and advises companies and entrepreneurs on investments and strategies to capitalize on the New Energy Economy. Andrew has successfully advised companies in her corporate environmental/energy law practice, serving as Of Counsel at Bingham McHale and as Co-Chair of the Environment/Energy Team at Baker & Daniels, and also serving as a partner at the Washington, D.C. law firm of Patton & Boggs. In addition, Andrew co-founded a medical bio-tech consulting company, Anson Group LLC and, as an owner and Director from 2004-2007, co-led the organization towards sustained growth and national recognition. Andrew has been actively engaged with conservation and environmental organizations, at the state and national level, including The Sierra Club and the Indiana Natural Resources Foundation. Andrew has worked with The Nature Conservancy (TNC) since 1995, serving as an Indiana Trustee, and as a member of the TNC President's National Advisory Council. Andrew also served as Special Counsel and Director for TNC in Arlington, Virginia. In her professional and community work, Andrew is experienced in creating, building and managing public policy initiatives in the environmental and clean energy arena. Andrew graduated from Georgetown University with a Bachelor of Arts and received her Juris Doctorate from Indiana University School of Law-Indianapolis, where she served as Editor?in-Chief of the Indiana Law Review.
Lynnae M. Ruttledge, Nominee for Commissioner, Rehabilitation Services Administration, Department of Education
Lynnae M. Ruttledge has served as the Director of the Washington Department of Social and Health Service, Division of Vocational Rehabilitation since 2005. She is responsible for leading Washington's vocational rehabilitation program, working annually with more than 23,000 individuals with significant disabilities to achieve their vocational goals. Previously, Ruttledge served in leadership positions at the Oregon Department of Human Services, Office of Vocational Rehabilitation Services for more than 25 years. Ruttledge began her public service career in Michigan as a classroom teacher in the public school system. She has received numerous recognitions and awards for her service including the Washington Governor's Award for Leadership in Management in 2007. As a person born with a disability, Ruttledge received assistance from the vocational rehabilitation program and graduated from the Northern Michigan University with a B.A. in Education.
Jill Long Thompson, Nominee for Member, Farm Credit Administration Board
Jill Long Thompson is a former Member of the United States House of Representatives and the former Under Secretary for Rural Development at the United States Department of Agriculture. She also served as Chief Executive Officer and Senior Fellow at The National Center for Food and Agricultural Policy, a not-for-profit, non-advocacy research and policy organization. She is the first and only woman to be nominated by a major party to run for Governor in Indiana, as well as the first and only Hoosier woman to be nominated by a major party to run for the United States Senate. Long Thompson joined the faculty at Valparaiso University in 1981 and in 1983 was elected to the City Council. In 1989 Long Thompson was elected to represent Northeast Indiana in Congress. She went on to serve three terms in the House, where she was a member of the Agriculture Committee and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs. She introduced one of the nation's first pieces of legislation banning Members of Congress from accepting gifts and expanding the disclosure requirements for lobbying activities. After leaving Congress, Long Thompson was appointed by President Bill Clinton to serve as the Under Secretary for Rural Development at the United States Department of Agriculture. In her five years at USDA, she oversaw a $10 billion annual budget and 7,000 employees while managing a number of programs that provide services to the underserved areas of rural America. Long Thompson earned a B.S. in Business Administration from Valparaiso University and an M.B.A. and Ph.D. in Business from the Kelley School at Indiana University.
  