
    Fellow veterans are fully committed to Dr. Paul
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign announced today new members of its nationwide "Veterans for Ron Paul" coalition.
The additions include New Jersey's most conservative state legislator, a campaign volunteer who once provided communications support for Air Force One, and a Vietnam veteran familiar with Dr. Paul's unwavering commitment to veterans.
"Now more than ever, the United States needs a leader who respects the Constitution and who will return liberty and prosperity to the American people. We need a leader who will use our military only when it is absolutely necessary to defend the national security interests of the U.S., and who will stop engaging our military in wasteful and unconstitutional nation-building exercises," said New Jersey State Sen. Michael J. Doherty (R-23) of Washington Township.
Sen. Doherty, who attained the rank of Captain in the U.S. Army and is also an attorney, served in Germany during the Cold War as a Nuclear Operations Officer in the Field Artillery. On Monday, September 26th, Sen. Doherty endorsed Dr. Paul on the steps of the New Jersey State House in Trenton before a crowd of more than 400 Garden State Ron Paul supporters.
"Ron Paul is the only candidate with the staunch principles and conviction required to uphold the responsibilities as the next President of the United States. Having experience the culture around the presidency firsthand, Ron Paul displays an unwavering authenticity that will compel the highest commitment from the men and women of the military and revive the sought-after ideals that built this country," said Mike Wallace, a Kentucky native who resides in South Portland, Maine.
From 2000 to 2004, Mr. Wallace served in the U.S. Air Force as an Active Duty Sr. Airman at Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland, in the 89th Communications Group. During his service, he supported communications for the Presidential Air Group, Air Force One and Special Air Mission Aircraft in the National Capital Region. Mr. Wallace currently volunteers for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign in the greater Washington, D.C. metropolitan area.
A veteran living in Texas's 14th Congressional District, which Dr. Paul represents, also joined the coalition after expressing his support for Dr. Paul in a nationally-televised campaign advertisement titled, "He Served."
"I support Congressman Ron Paul for President because he wants to give the government back to the people. He supports the veterans. He wants to bring the troops back to the United States where they belong. Dr. Paul also wants to protect our border and support the USA locally, not spend our money overseas," said Joe R. Pena of Port Lavaca, Texas.
Mr. Pena served in the U.S. Army in Vietnam in 1965 at Id Drang Valley. Having retired after 30 years from the Port Lavaca Police Department, he presently serves as a County Veteran Service Officer for Calhoun County, Texas.
As a function of today's announcement, the aforementioned veterans now serve on the national advisory board of "Veterans for Ron Paul."
As a first basic step, those wanting to join the "Veterans for Ron Paul"coalition should visitwww.RonPaul2012.com/Veterans.
To view Dr. Paul's latest national security-themed television ad title "Secure,"click here.
  