
    My fellow Americas, after the many long months and miles of this campaign, in three days this election will be in your hands.
You will face a choice.
I believe it's time to give this country we love a fresh start. And this morning, I would like to give you as a plainly as I can the summary of my case on how – together – we can change America.
I believe we begin by moving our economy, our government, and our society back in line with our best values.
In three days, you can choose a president who will defend this nation and fight for the middle class. And if you give me the chance, I will be that President.
In Iraq, I will bring our allies to our side and train Iraqis so that we can succeed and bring our troops home. I will fight a tougher, smarter, more effective war on terror. We will hunt down, capture, and kill the terrorists wherever they are. I defended this country as a young man and I will defend it as president.
But a president has to be able to do more than one thing at a time.
We can bring back good-paying jobs for middle-class families so that they don't just get by – they get ahead. We can bring down the cost of health care and child care and tuition so that you can pay the bills and give your children the same chance at life that your parents gave you.
This can be our future.
But first we must choose.
It's a choice between four more years of George Bush's policy to ship jobs overseas and give tax breaks to the companies that do it -- or a President who will reward the companies that create and keep good jobs here in the United States of America.
On Tuesday, you'll face a choice between four more years of George Bush's giveaways to the big drug companies and the big HMOs -- or a President who will finally make health care a right, and not a privilege, for every American.
On Tuesday, you will choose between four more years of tax giveaways for millionaires along with a higher tax burden for you -- or a President who will cut middle-class taxes, raise the minimum wage, and guarantee women an equal day's pay for an equal day's work.
On Tuesday, America faces a choice between four more years of an energy policy of, by, and for the big oil companies -- or a President who finally makes America independent of Mideast oil in ten years. I believe that America should rely on our own ingenuity and innovation, not the Saudi Royal family.
You can choose a fresh start. And when I'm President, that's what you'll get.
In the end, I believe that the only way to do all this is by coming together as One America. It is time for America to put the politics of polarization behind us. It is time to appeal to the best instincts of Republicans, Democrats, and Independents alike.
I see an America of rising opportunity. And I believe hope, not fear is our future.
In three days, we can change the course of our country. I ask for your vote and I ask for your help. When you go to the polls next Tuesday, bring your friends, your family, your neighbors. No one can afford to stand on the sidelines or sit this one out.
In three days, this campaign will end. The election is in your hands. You can vote now and every day until Election Day. And if you believe we need a fresh start in Iraq .... if you believe we can create and keep good jobs here in America ... if you believe we need to get health care costs under control ... if you believe in the promise of stem cell research ... if you believe our deficits are too high and we're too dependent on Mideast oil ...then I ask you to join me and together we'll change America.
Thank you and God bless America.
  