
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 26
The President announced his intention to nominate William H. Twaddell to be Ambassador to Nigeria.
The President announced the appointment of Susan Blumenthal, M.D., as Senior Adviser to the President for Women's Health, effective November 1.
September 27
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Little Rock, AR, to Hot Springs, AR. In the afternoon, they returned to Little Rock.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a University of Arkansas football game at War Memorial Stadium.
September 28
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
September 29
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn Linda Haydock Proffitt to be Ambassador to Malta.
The President announced the nomination of Alphonso Maldon, Jr., to be Deputy Secretary at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
September 30
In the morning, the President traveled to Arlington, VA, and he returned to Washington, DC, in the afternoon.
October 1
In the morning, the President met with Crown Prince Hassan of Jordan in the Oval Office. Later, he met with Members of Congress in the Diplomatic Reception Room to discuss tobacco issues.
The President announced his intention to nominate Phyllis Elliott Oakley to be Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Research at the State Department.
The President announced the appointment of Virginia M. Apuzzo as Assistant to the President for Management and Administration at the White House.
October 2
In the evening, the President met with automobile industry executives in the Cabinet Room.
The White House announced that the President will participate in the White House Conference on Climate Change on October 6.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joan Dempsey to be Deputy Director for Community Management at the Central Intelligence Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Janice R. Lachance to serve as Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Thompson to be Under Secretary for Benefits at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Harriet C. Babbitt to be Deputy Administrator at the Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas J. Miller for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure as Special Coordinator for Cyprus.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stanley Louis McLelland to be Ambassador to Jamaica.
The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel Charles Kurtzer to be Ambassador to Egypt.
The President announced the nomination of Steven Karl Pifer to be Ambassador to Ukraine.
The President announced the nomination of Steven J. Green to be Ambassador to Singapore.
October 3
In the morning, the President had his annual physical examination at the National Medical Center in Bethesda, MD.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ambassador Timothy Michael Carney to be Ambassador to Haiti.
The President announced his intention to nominate Cameron R. Hume to be Ambassador to Algeria.
The President announced his intention to nominate Amy L. Bondurant to be U.S. Representative to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development.
  