
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted October 6
A. Peter Burleigh, of California, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Deputy Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations.
James Catherwood Hormel, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Luxembourg.
Gerald S. McGowan, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Portugal.
Lyndon Lowell Olson, Jr., of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Sweden.
Bill Richardson, of New Mexico, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations.
Richard Sklar, of California, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform.
Nancy E. Soderberg,
of the District of Columbia, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
Nancy E. Soderberg,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Alternate Representative of the United States of America for Special Political Affairs in the United Nations.
Kenneth R. Wykle, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, vice Rodney E. Slater.
Submitted October 8
Betty Eileen King, of Maryland, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.
Phyllis E. Oakley, of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Toby Trister Gati.
Stanford G. Ross,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2002, vice William C. Brooks.
Michael B. Thornton, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years after he takes office, vice Lapsley Walker Hamblem, Jr., retired.
Christopher C. Ashby, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Oriental Republic of Uruguay.
James Hudson Bailey, of Wisconsin, to be Deputy Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, vice Harvey G. Ryland, resigned.
Mark Erwin, of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 1999, vice Gordon D. Giffin, term expired.
Garr M. King, of Oregon, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Oregon, vice Helen J. Frye, retired.
James A. Larocco, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Kuwait.
Norman K. Moon, of Virginia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Virginia, vice Jackson L. Kiser, retired.
Submitted October 9
Ida L. Castro, of New York, to be Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor, vice Karen Beth Nussbaum, resigned.
Richard W. Fisher, of Texas, to be Deputy U.S. Trade Representative, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Charlene Barshefsky.
Thomas H. Fox,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice Henrietta Holsman Fore.
Kevin Gover, of New Mexico, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Ada E. Deer, resigned.
Joy Harjo, of New Mexico, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2002, vice William E. Strickland, Jr., term expired.
Fred P. Hochberg, of New York, to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration, vice Ginger Ehn Lew.
Donald C. Lubick, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Leslie B. Samuels, resigned.
Carl Spielvogel, of New York, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 1999 (reappointment).
Harriet C. Babbitt, of Arizona, to be Deputy Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice Carol J. Lancaster, resigned.
Mary Mel French,
of the District of Columbia, to be Chief of Protocol, and to have the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service.
Robert T. Grey, Jr., of Virginia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as U.S. Representative to the Conference on Disarmament.
David B. Hermelin, of Michigan, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Norway.
Robert S. Warshaw, of New York, to be Associate Director for National Drug Control Policy, vice Rose Ochi, resigned.
  