
    
The Chinese government announced this week that it would be changing its infamous, brutal "one child" policy, to allow Chinese parents to have two children if they wish. Unfortunately, this change from authoritarian Beijing is but a tiny improvement, Marco said today, and the new policy will be just as cruel and despotic as the old one.
The horrible consequences of the existing policy are clear: "For over three decades, China's barbaric one-child policy has condemned approximately 37 million Chinese girls — who the policy deemed as unwanted or 'surplus' — to abortion, infanticide, abandonment and human trafficking. It has resulted in an unprecedented gender imbalance that will have lasting consequences," Marco said.
But the new policy will have much the same results, Marco said: "While the decision to allow Chinese couples to have two children is a modest improvement, the policy is still repressive. The fact remains that when couples conceive a third child, the Chinese government will force them to eliminate him or her, by any means necessary.
"A two-child policy is as indefensible and inhumane as a one child policy, and it would be a mistake to assume this change in anyway reflects a newfound respect for human rights by Beijing. The U.S. must continue advocating for the complete elimination of government-forced population planning as well as the fundamental rights of all Chinese citizens, including the unborn, to live up to their God-given potential."
Read more coverage of the event here at LifeNews.
The one-child policy is just one of a range of inhumane policies that the authoritarian government in Beijing imposes on the Chinese people — including political repression that has increased in recent years.
Marco has proposed a comprehensive policy to confront China as president, that involves specific steps to stand up for human rights, rebuild American strength, especially in East Asia, and protect American economic interests.
Read more about Marco's plans for China here.
  