
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 17 [ix]1
The President announced his intention to appoint Cynthia A. Murray-Beliveau to be a member of the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
October 20 [x]1
The President has selected the following delegates to attend the White House Conference on Travel and Tourism on October 30-31: Carol Baumgarten; John Brissenden; Ray Bryant; Gregg Carano; Nancy Patton Conway; Eduardo Diaz; Sho Dozono; Mary Eaddy; Patricia Gentry Edington; Marc Fruchter; Chris Gallant; Wayne Greenhaw; Nabil Haddad; Phyllis Y. Hamilton; Yolanda Kizer; A.K. (Kirk) Lanterman; Don Madden; Patrick Murphy; Jerry T. Nagler, Jr.; Mark Nichols; Deborah L. Ortega; Ruth Ann Pastrick; Clyde V. Prestowitz, Jr.; Linus Raines; Randy Randall; Nancy Reuther; Y. Sherry Sheng; Calvin Smyre; Kathleen Anne Sweeton; Royette Tarry; Henry Topel; J. Kim Tucci; Arthur Turnbull; Janet Turner; Thomas W. Walsh; Kenneth C. Wilkins; and Amy Vanderbilt.
October 21
In the morning, the President traveled from Des Moines, IA, to Cedar Rapids, IA.
In the afternoon, the President toured the National Czech and Slovak Museum and Library. Following the tour, he attended a reception for museum supporters and staff members in the Meeting Room and held meetings with President Michal Kovac of the Slovak Republic and President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic in the Library. He then returned to Washington, DC.
October 22
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to New York City. Later in the morning, the President met with Prime Minister Janez Drnovsek of Slovenia at the United States Mission to the United Nations.
In the afternoon, the President met with Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali at United Nations Headquarters. He then met with Prime Minister Meles Zenawi of Ethiopia at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a reception for heads of state in the Gottesman Exhibition Hall at the New York Public Library.
October 23
In the morning, the President traveled to Hyde Park, NY, and in the afternoon, he returned to New York City.
The President announced his intention to appoint Yvonne Lee to the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights.
The President made available $125 million in emergency funds for disaster loans to help the States and the U.S. Virgin Islands recover from Hurricanes Marilyn and Opal.
The White House announced that the President and Hillary Clinton will make a state visit to Japan November 19-21.
October 24
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jay Mazur to the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations.
October 25
In the evening, the President met with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel in the Secretary's Sitting Room at the State Department.
October 26
In the morning, the President met with Second Deputy Prime Minister Prince Sultan Bin Abdul Aziz Al-Saud of Saudi Arabia.
October 27
In the morning, the President met with President Soeharto of Indonesia.
The President announced his intention to appoint James D. Casto and Peter Field to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced his intention to appoint Francis B. (Frank) Moore to the United Service Organizations, Inc., Board of Governors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Vance D. Coffman, Paul E. Wright, and Van B. Honeycutt to the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Deborah G. Groeber, Kenneth J.
Oscar, and Maj. Gen. Ray E. McCoy, USA, to the Committee for Purchases From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
The White House announced that the President will attend the dedication of a memorial cairn commemorating the victims of the terrorist bombing of Pan American Airlines Flight 103 at Arlington Cemetery on November 3.
  