
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 22
In the morning, the President traveled to San Francisco, CA, and in the evening, he traveled to Seattle, WA.
The President announced his intention to appoint Eamon Mahony, Jr., as the Federal Commissioner and Fred D. Helms as the Alternate Federal Commissioner of the Arkansas River Compact Commission.
October 23
In the morning, the President attended services at University Presbyterian Church in Seattle.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cleveland, OH.
October 24
In the afternoon, the President attended a reception for Ohio Attorney General Lee Fisher at the Ritz-Carlton Hotel. He then traveled to Akron, OH, where he toured the Inventure Place construction site.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
October 25
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Cairo, Egypt.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert Robles, Barbara J. Sabol, and Kaye Theimer as members of the Commission on Child and Family Welfare.
The President announced his intention to appoint Barbara H. Britten, M. Austin Forman, James T. McCarthy, and Michael F. Tillman, to be U.S. Commissioners of the Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission.
October 26
Following their arrival in Cairo in the very early morning, the President and Hillary Clinton were met by President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and Mrs. Mubarak and then participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier and the Tomb of Anwar Sadat. They then rested at the El-Qubbah Palace.
Later in the morning, the President met with President Mubarak in the President's Library at the palace. The two Presidents then met with Palestine Liberation Organization Chairman Yasser Arafat. In the late morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Aqaba, Jordan.
In the afternoon, the President attended a trilateral luncheon at the Aqaba Royal Palace. He and Hillary Clinton then traveled to Amman, Jordan.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a welcoming ceremony at the Parliament. Later in the evening, they attended a dinner hosted by King Hussein and Queen Noor of Jordan at the Nadwa Palace.
The President announced his appointment of Dudley R. Herschbach as Chairman and Cathleen S. Morawetz, Susan Graham, and William J. Wilson as members of the President's Committee for the National Medal of Science.
October 27
In the morning, the President traveled to Damascus, Syria, where he met with President Hafiz al-Asad at the Presidential Palace.
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Tel Aviv, Israel, where he was joined by Hillary Clinton.
In the evening, the President met with Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin at the King David Hotel. He and Hillary Clinton then went to the Knesset where they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Eternal Flame.
October 28
In the morning, the President had a breakfast meeting with President Ezer Weizman of Israel at his residence.
Later in the morning, the President traveled to Kuwait. Following an arrival ceremony, he met with U.S. and coalition troops, viewed military equipment, and attended a briefing with coalition commanders at Tactical Assembly Area Liberty
In the evening, the President met with Amir Jabir Sabah of Kuwait at the Bayan Palace in Kuwait City. Following the meeting, the President traveled to King Khalid Military City, Saudi Arabia, where he met with King Fahd.
  