
    It's very nice for a President to have an Ambassador who when he's unpopular takes the blame and when he's popular gives the President the credit for it. [Laughter]
There were a few months ago when I had doubts about Andrew Young-[laughter]--and his popularity with the American people. But I think all of you have seen very clearly that he's now one of the greatest international assets that we have, and the American people now recognize that. And, Andy, I want to thank you for it.
I've had a delightful day here as President of our country, visiting the distinguished representatives of so many nations around the world. And this evening during the meal I had a chance to come around and meet all of you. And to think for just a moment about the remarkable harmony that exists here between or among diplomats and foreign ministers, prime ministers, presidents, whose people share even as deep or even deeper a feeling of friendship to one another and a yearning of peace and harmony and mutual commitment to solving problems. And at the same time we go ahead mounting armaments races, and we have difficulty communicating with one another at the top level. And there's often an inability to bridge a gap which separates our people.
I think that in a remarkable way we have an opportunity to correct that defect in our societal arrangement. The United Nations has been an entity now for 32 years, I believe. We're very proud of the fact that its basic home is here. But many of you share in a commitment that it's your home, too. And I think there's a growing awareness among ourselves and the Soviets and the Israelis and the Arab countries, the African nations and those in the Far East, that this is a place to bring our challenges and our problems and our differences and our opportunities and our dreams, and hopefully, to get other nations to join in a common understanding of the realization of those hopes and the resolution of differences.
As President of one of the great nations, I'm very eager to do everything I can to show the world that we have confidence in the community-of-nations approach. We realize that power and might and influence and strength and economic well-being can't provide leadership unless there is a community of effort. And as a newcomer to the international scene, as a newcomer even to the National Government in our own country, I've already benefited greatly from my contact with many of you and the leaders from your own countries. You've been very helpful to me in giving me advice and counsel privately, sometimes publicly, which I also appreciate. And we hope to learn in the process, and I think we have learned some things.
We have a great opportunity to move forward in the next few years. There are some crises that must be addressed between ourselves and the Soviet Union in the SALT talks and the elimination of testing of nuclear weapons and the elimination of explosives from countries that don't have them, as I mentioned today in my talk, and the questions in the Middle East, in southern Africa, in the recognition of newborn nations, and the alleviation of disharmonies that still exist from past wars.
Those things are challenges to us all. And this is a challenge that's so great that it's just imperative that we work together-not in a quiescent or quiet or reticent way, but in a constructive, forceful, and courageous fashion, because there's no doubt in my mind that among our people there is an intense desire for harmony and friendship. The leaders sometimes are the obstacle to the realization of those hopes that exist among those who have put us in powerful offices.
I would like to say in closing that we are very grateful to have you here with us tonight. It's an honor for us to welcome you. Those of you who are not heads of state, I've had a chance either to meet with your own chosen leaders or will soon be taking advantage of that opportunity. And this again is a way for the American people to learn about the common problems that we face and the need for closer attention to those at all levels of government.
And this is a time, also, to break down barriers that exist to trade, to tourism, to share the battle against hunger and disease and poverty, and to share the battle against disease.
These are challenges I hope we can face, once we eliminate the threat of war and remove our deep and debilitating commitment to the purchase of weapons and threat of nuclear destruction. The challenge is there for us. I think we have a great and exciting prospect in the years to come.
You know these things better than I. And I'm. very proud of a chance to make friends here tonight and to let you know that the commitment of our Nation is to join with you in these high and exciting and challenging and difficult common purposes for a brighter future.
Thank you very much.
  