
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest web ad, entitled "Preconditions." The ad highlights that while Barack Obama has pledged to meet with Iran and other state sponsors of terror without preconditions, Iran has outlined several preconditions of their own. For a meeting, Iran is demanding that the United States cease its support of Israel and that all American forces must leave the Middle East. The question is what will Barack Obama do?
VIEW THE WEB AD HERE:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c1azQcs-8iI
Script For "Preconditions" (WEB :60)
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message.
ANNCR: Remember when Barack Obama said he'd sit down and talk with Iran without preconditions?
YOUTUBE QUESTIONER: Would you be willing to meet separately without precondition within the first year of your administration in Washington or anywhere else with the leaders of Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea?
CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER: Senator Obama?
BARACK OBAMA: I would.
ANNCR: Maybe Obama doesn't have preconditions but Iran does.
Iran, whose President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said "Israel must be wiped off the map."
Iran demands:
That the U.S. must cease its support of Israel.
And that all U.S. military forces must leave the Middle East.
Meaning we abandon Iraq, Turkey and Kuwait.
What will Obama do?
Will he admit he was wrong or will he accept Iran's demands?
Tough question.
AD FACTS: Script For "Preconditions" (WEB :60)
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message. ANNCR: Remember when Barack Obama said he'd sit down and talk with Iran without preconditions? YOUTUBE QUESTIONER: Would you be willing to meet separately without precondition within the first year of your administration in Washington or anywhere else with the leaders of Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea? CNN'S ANDERSON COOPER: Senator Obama? BARACK OBAMA: I would.

At A July 2007 Debate, Barack Obama Didn't Hesitate To Announce He Would Personally Meet With The Leaders Of State Sponsors Of Terror "Without Precondition." Question: "[W]ould you be willing to meet separately, without precondition, during the first year of your administration, in Washington or anywhere else, with the leaders of Iran, Syria, Venezuela, Cuba and North Korea, in order to bridge the gap that divides our countries?"...Obama: "I would. And the reason is this, that the notion that somehow not talking to countries is punishment to them -- which has been the guiding diplomatic principle of this administration is ridiculous." (Sen. Barack Obama, CNN/YouTube Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Charleston, SC, 7/23/07)

ANNCR: Maybe Obama doesn't have preconditions but Iran does. Iran, whose President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said "Israel must be wiped off the map."

Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad Said Israel Should Be Wiped Off The Map And Denied That The Holocaust Occurred. "Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad has said in the past he wants to wipe Israel off the map and dismissed the Holocaust as a myth." (Nick Wadhams, "Israel: No Greater Threat To World's Values Than The Leaders Of Iran," The Associated Press, 9/21/06)

ANNCR: Iran demands: That the U.S. must cease its support of Israel. And that all U.S. military forces must leave the Middle East. Meaning we abandon Iraq, Turkey and Kuwait. What will Obama do? Will he admit he was wrong or will he accept Iran's demands? Tough question.

Iranian Officials Recently Laid Out Their Own Preconditions For Meeting With The United States, Including A Complete Withdrawal Of American Forces From The Middle East And An End To U.S. Support For Israel. "Mehdi Kalhor, Vice President for Media Affairs, said the U.S. must do two things before summit talks can take place. First, American military forces must leave the Middle East -- presumably including such countries as Iraq, Qatar, Turkey and anywhere else American soldiers are deployed in the region. Second, the U.S. must cease its support of Israel. Until Washington does both, talks are off the agenda,' the Islamic Republic News Agency reports. It quotes Mr. Kalhor as saying, If they [the U.S.] take our advice, grounds for such talks would be well prepared.'" (Editorial, "Iran's Preconditions," The Wall Street Journal, 10/22/08)

  