
    [Dated October 4, 1976. Released October 5, 1976]
To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to Public Law 94-104, I am submitting my sixth periodic report on the Cyprus negotiations and the actions which this Administration is taking to assist in the search of a lasting solution to the problems still facing the people of the Republic of Cyprus.
In my last report I reviewed recent steps taken by the Administration to bring about further progress in the Cyprus talks, and I emphasized the need for the parties to set aside procedural problems and move on to discussions of key substantive issues.
Our efforts during the past sixty days have been directed to encouraging the resumption of such negotiations. We have been in close contact with our major Western allies regarding new ideas which might contribute to progress in the Cyprus talks and have continued to work closely with United Nations Secretary General Waldheim. Secretary of State Kissinger met with Mr. Waldheim in New York in late August to discuss the Cyprus question. Following that meeting Secretary General Waldheim asked the chief Cypriot negotiators from both sides to come to New York for individual consultations with him on how the negotiations might best be resumed. These consultations developed into a series of joint meetings at which both sides discussed the issues which were blocking further progress. After these meetings, the two Cypriot negotiators agreed to continue their consultations in Nicosia, under the chairmanship of the Secretary General's Special Representative for Cyprus. It is my hope these talks will lead to resumption of meaningful discussion on the main issues.
In his meetings with the Foreign Ministers of Greece and Turkey at the United Nations last week, Secretary Kissinger urged their strong support once again for a new round of talks. We will continue to work as closely as possible with the Governments of Greece and Turkey, with the UN Secretary General, with our Western allies, and with the parties themselves, to insure that every opportunity is seized in pursuing a just and lasting settlement on Cyprus.
To focus the world's attention on the need for rapid progress, Secretary Kissinger stated anew the position of my Administration in his speech before the UN General Assembly on September 30 when he emphasized that our overriding objectives remain the well-being of the Cypriot people and peace in the Eastern Mediterranean. Calling upon all concerned to undertake a new commitment to achieve these ends, he underlined once again the position I have repeatedly voiced:
"A settlement must come from the Cypriot communities themselves. It is they who must decide how their island's economy and government shall be reconstructed. It is they who must decide the ultimate relationship of the two communities and the territorial extent of each area."
This Administration believes that in order to restore momentum in the negotiations a set of principles along the following lines might help the parties to resume talks on substantive issues:
--A settlement should preserve the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Cyprus;
--The present dividing lines on Cyprus must be adjusted to reduce the area currently controlled by the Turkish side;
--The territorial arrangement should take into account the economic requirements and humanitarian concerns of the two Cypriot communities, including the plight of those who remain refugees;
--A constitutional arrangement should provide conditions under which the two Cypriot communities can live in freedom and have a large vote in their own affairs; and
--Security arrangements should be agreed that permit the withdrawal of foreign military forces other than those present under international agreement.
It is my strong hope that these ideas may be given careful consideration by all concerned.
In addition to these steps, the United States also continues to provide financial assistance to the people of Cyprus so that they may overcome the burdens imposed on them by the events of 1974. I have just signed into law a bill authorizing $17.5 million in U.S. relief assistance for Cyprus in the coming fiscal year. Our assistance thus far, some $50 million over the past two years, has been a major factor in providing adequate homes for almost all of those unfortunate Cypriots uprooted in 1974, and, in addition, has made a substantial contribution toward the medical needs, emergency food aid and the general welfare of the many displaced from their homes. We will continue to offer our help wherever it is needed.
The United States also continues to be the largest financial contributor to the maintenance of the United Nations Peacekeeping Force on Cyprus, which has done such a highly effective job. We continue actively to support both the work of the UN Peacekeeping Force and the UN resolutions calling for a just and lasting solution to the Cyprus problem, respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of that island, and withdrawal of all foreign military forces not authorized by agreements. While I strongly endorse all of these precepts, the last is of special importance since the cause of peace can only be poorly served when men confront each other with arms. I was therefore gratified to hear of the withdrawal last month of a further portion of the Turkish armed forces from Cyprus.
In summary, during the past sixty days we have increased our efforts to bring the two sides together once more for discussions in any area which might contribute to a more secure and normal life for the people of Cyprus. We have reaffirmed our determination to continue direct bilateral assistance on a large scale. We have worked with other members of the international community to bring about the best possible set of conditions for resumption of the Cyprus talks at an early date.
My Administration will further intensify its efforts to bring both sides together again with the hope, based on their meetings in New York last month, that some further significant advances may occur.
The people of the United States remain keenly interested in promoting an equitable and lasting settlement on Cyprus. My Administration has been active at every opportunity in encouraging such a settlement. We believe the people of both the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot communities share equally a desire for peaceful, productive and secure lives. We will continue to use every opportunity further to encourage the leaders of both sides toward a common solution which will achieve these goals.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
October 4, 1976.
  