
    Joe Biden's open-borders agenda would be a disaster for Latino workers and families.
In response to Joe Biden's attacks on President Trump's policies aimed at encouraging opportunity for Hispanics, upholding the rule of law, stopping crime, and keeping communities safe, Latino members of the National Border Patrol Council are speaking out in support of President Trump.
Watch what Maria Salcido, Art Del Cueto, Gabrial Class, and Jose Marrero have to say below.
 
"My name is Maria Salcido, I'm a member of the National Border Patrol Council. I want to thank President Trump for properly enforcing immigration laws. My parents, who legally immigrated into the United States, and my four children, support my career because they understand that the rule of law keeps the Latino community safe."
 
"My name is Art Del Cueto, and I'm Vice President of the National Border Patrol Council. Because of President Trump's immigration policies, the Latino community has flourished. America has flourished. We are for the rule of law. Under President Trump's rule, we've had the highest average annual income that have ever been amongst Latino communities and minorities, the lowest unemployment rate amongst Latino communities and minorities. We must continue to support the rule of the law and continue to support President Trump. Go out and vote."
"Mi nombre es Arturo del Cueto. Soy vicepresidente del Sindicato de Trabajadores de la Patrulla Fronteriza. Estamos respaldando al presidente y sus políticas de inmigracion. Bajo la administración del presidente Trump, entre los latinos y las minorías, hemos visto un alto porcentaje de hispanos que han comprado sus primeras viviendas. Al mismo tiempo, hemos visto el más bajo desempleo dentro de minorías y hispanos que hemos visto en los últimos 50 años. Tenemos que seguir respaldando la ley y seguir respaldando al presidente Trump. Salgan a votar".
 
"My name is Gabriel Class, I'm a member of a National Border Patrol Council. Having been raised by a Black mother and a Puerto Rican father in New York, I personally witnessed the negative effects of illegal immigration. I want to thank President Trump for his max efforts in helping people like me and the Latino community to succeed here in the United States."
Mi nombre es Gabriel Class. Soy miembro del 'National Border Patrol Council'. Creado por madre negra y padre puertorriqueños. Personalmente vi los efectos de la inmigracion ilegal en los Estados Unidos. Le quiero agradecer al presidente Trump por sus esfuerzos en ayudar a personas como yo y a la comunidad latina prosperar aquí en los Estados Unidos.
 
"I am Jose Marrero, Vice President of Local 2544 under the National Border Patrol Council. I want to thank President Trump for his immigration policies. I am born and raised in Puerto Rico, and as a Puerto Rican I have seen first-hand how President Trump has helped Puerto Ricans in the island and here in the United States. He is committed to helping us drive and move forward. Vote for President Trump."
"Mi nombre es Jose Marrero. Soy vicepresidente de la Local 2594 del 'National Border Patrol Council'. Quiero agradecer al presidente Trump por sus políticas migratorias. Como puertorriqueño, que nací y fui criado en Puerto Rico, he visto de primera mano cuanto estas políticas nos han ayudado y [que tan] envuelto está el presidente Trump en ayudar a los puertorriqueños dentro de la isla y aca en los Estados Unidos. Voten por presidente Trump".
  