
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of New Hampshire Executive Councilor Chris Sununu (R-Newfields). Sununu joins Executive Councilors Ray Burton (R-Bath), Dan St. Hilaire (R-Concord) and Ray Wieczorek (R-Manchester) who have previously endorsed Governor Romney's candidacy.
"Chris Sununu comes from a family that is committed to public service and the traditional New Hampshire principles of fiscal responsibility and limited government. As an Executive Councilor, he has consistently stood up for taxpayers by cutting state spending and fighting to preserve the Granite State's low tax environment," said Mitt Romney. "I am proud to have earned Councilor Sununu's support and look forward to campaigning with him across New Hampshire."
"As he campaigns throughout New Hampshire, Mitt Romney has demonstrated that he has the skills, the experience, and the leadership needed to defeat President Obama and turn around our economy. He knows how to create jobs, cut spending, reduce taxes and promote the pro-growth policies that are needed to return America's prosperity," said Councilor Sununu. "In 2012, Republicans need a leader who can unite our Party and promote our fiscally conservative values. That leader is Mitt Romney."
Background On Executive Councilor Sununu:
Chris Sununu Was First Elected To The New Hampshire Executive Council In 2010. Sununu recently led a group of local investors in the buyout of New Hampshire's Waterville Valley Ski Resort. He subsequently became the resort's Chief Executive Officer. Prior to this acquisition, Chris served as an owner and Director for Sununu Enterprises, a family business and strategic consulting group based in Exeter. He previously worked for 10 years as an environmental engineer in various regions across the United States from New Hampshire to California, designing systems and solutions for cleaning up some of our country's most hazardous waste sites. Chris holds a BS degree in Civil/Environmental Engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
  