
    
"That's the American Dream to me. You work hard. You're going to get what you want eventually. It's not going to happen overnight by no means, but if you work hard enough you will get it. I resent the government or Obama's plan to take more away from me." -- Joe Wurzelbacher
FOX News' "Your World"
October 14, 2008
Neil Cavuto: "Well, you know, you're the type of guy who these tax increases of his could affect, or with a cutoff that his could affect, and you don't fit this gazillionaire model. In other words, you're not the Henry Kravis types, but you're in that group that would see your taxes hiked. What do you think of that?"
Joe Wurzelbacher: "Well, it's, you know -- I don't know how much of the video is shown, but I'm living in a simple middle-class home. Most of the homes go from anywhere from $90,000 at the lowest to maybe $140,000 at the highest. You know, just working, and when I do purchase the rest of this company and move forward, I will be living there still, because, one, I don't want to keep up with the Joneses, and two, I just couldn't really afford a bigger house. I'm going to have to work harder to make that company go. I want to put more trucks on the road and his tax increases kind of hurts that aspect." 
Cavuto: "Some people interpreted his remark as sort of like Robin Hood-ish, Joe, that it was a redistribution of wealth. Taking from guys like you to help people who are not as well off as you. What do you think of that?" 
Wurzelbacher: "Robin Hood stole from greedy rich people and redistributed it to the peasants, so to speak, so if he's calling us peasants, I kind of resent that. I'm the same class of people that went from paycheck to paycheck living to finally being able to save some money, and it's just -- you work and hard work. That's the American Dream to me. You work hard. You're going to get what you want eventually. It's not going to happen overnight by no means, but if you work hard enough you will get it. I resent the government or Obama's plan to take more away from me."
Watch The FOX News Report
  