
    Democratic leaders in Georgia explain why Edwards' strength at the top of the ticket will motivate swing voters, helping Democrats maintain and expand their majority in Congress and win in down-ballot races in Georgia and across the nation
Atlanta, Georgia – As part of a new "True Blue Majority" campaign launching this week, today Georgia Democratic leaders held a press conference to announce their support of John Edwards for president.
"It is so important that we nominate a candidate who will motivate swing voters in battleground states, like Georgia, to support the Democratic Party in 2008," said former Governor Roy Barnes. "Poll after poll in red and battleground states shows Edwards to be the strongest Democratic challenger in a general election match-up with the leading Republicans. Edwards' strength at the top of the ticket will help Democrats not only to take back the White House, but also to maintain and expand our majorities in Congress and state legislatures. And his coattails will help lead Democrats to victory in down-ballot races at the state and local level as well."
"We need a leader who can compete anywhere in America, and win," added Barnes. "Some pundits say that a Democrat can't win in some places in the South, Midwest or West. But they're wrong. The right Democratic presidential nominee – one who shares our values, understands our issues and offers real and bold solutions – can win these states. That candidate is John Edwards."
"The American people are tired of being ignored by the folks in Washington. The people who want real change in this nation don't just live in blue states or in swing states – they live in every state in this country and on every street in America," said Edwards. "I am committed to spreading a message of real change in every single state in this country. As the Democratic nominee, I will go to small towns in Georgia that politicians usually ignore and I will work to get Democrats elected to Congress, governorships and state legislatures all across this country."
The following Georgia leaders have endorsed John Edwards for president:

Former Governor Roy Barnes
Former Lt. Governor Mark Taylor
Former Georgia Congressman Ben "Cooter" Jones
State Senate Democratic Leader Robert Brown
State House Democratic Leader Dubose Porter
State Senator Vincent D. Fort
State Senator Valencia Seay
State Senator Steve Henson
State Representative and Chief Deputy Whip Rob Teilhet
State Representative Stephanie Stuckey Benfield
State Representative Michele Henson
State Representative Gerald Greene
State Representative Jeannette Jamieson
State Representative Charles Jenkins
State Representative Billy Mitchell
State Representative Hugh Floyd
State Representative Wade Starr
Former State Senator and Middle Georgia Attorney Michael Moore
Former State Senator Mel Traylor
Former State Representative; Former Chairman of the Polk County Party, John Moore
Former State Representative Tom Bordeaux
Former Judge of the Georgia Court of Appeals Marion T. Pope
Kerry Chair and Kerry-Edwards Chair in Georgia, Former Chair of Democratic Party in Georgia David Worley
Former DNC Executive Committee Member; Former National President, College Democrats of America, Ashley Bell
Middle Georgia attorney Chuck Byrd
Macon City Councilman, Mike Cranford
Macon City Councilman, Rick Hutto
Macon City Council Elect. Macon Attorney and Democratic Activist Lauren Logan Benedict
Former Taylor County Sheriff; Past President of the Georgia Sheriff Association, Nick Giles
Atlanta attorney and former Chief of Staff to Senate Democratic Caucus Amol Naik
Former Executive Director of the Georgia Democratic Party Jeff DiSantis
Former Communications Director of the Georgia Democratic Party Emil Runge
Atlanta business leader Shi Shailendra
Associate Director for the Conflict Resolution Program; Son of President Jimmy Carter, Jeff Carter
Attorney Stephen Leeds
Former Commissioner of Macon-Bibb County Planning and Zoning, Founding Member of Women's Political Network, Founder and Former Editor of Macon Magazine Joni Woolf
Former Bibb County School Board Member, Terry Tripp
Co-Founding Chair of the Georgia WIN list , Melita Easters
Coordinator for Georgia Women for Kerry Edwards in 2004, Amy Morton
Founder and President of Nannies + More , Sacha Taylor
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Fred Orr
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Martin Chitwood
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist ,Tim Morrison
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Tim Santelli
Columbus Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist, James Butler
Marietta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Ronald Lowry
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist , Adam Malone
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist Tommy Malone
Atlanta Businessman, The Shailendra Group; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist Sachin Shailendra,
Atlanta Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist Glenn Sturm
Columbus Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist, Trip Tomlinson
Columbus Attorney; Democratic Fundraiser and Activist, Teresa Tomlinson

  