
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Negotiations for terms of 2 years:
Jo Ann Doke Smith, of Micanopy, FL, is president of the National Cattlemen's Association. She was born May 9, 1939, in Gainesville, FL. She will succeed Samuel H. Washburn.
Warren S. Chase, of New York, NY, is vice president, Bank of Boston, and currently on assignment in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. He was born February 18, 1948, in Boston, MA. This is a reappointment.
Barbara Hackman Franklin, of Washington, DC, is senior fellow and director of the Wharton Public Policy Fellowship, the Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. She was born March 19, 1940, in Lancaster, PA. This is a reappointment.
Francis P. Graves, Jr., of St. Paul, MN, is owner and president of Graves Aviation Co. He was born May 14, 1923, in Los Angeles, CA. This is a reappointment.
Richard Edwin Heckert, of Kennett Square, PA, is vice chairman of the DuPont Co. He was born January 13, 1924, in Oxford, OH. This is a reappointment.
Gerald E. Kremkow, of Honolulu, HI, is president of the Gerald Kremkow Co. He was born January 21, 1942, in Detroit, MI. This is a reappointment.
Lloyd I. Miller, of Cincinnati, OH, is president, chief executive officer, and director of American Controlled Industries, Inc. He was born, May 1, 1924, in Cincinnati, OH. This is a reappointment.
Peter C. Murphy, Jr., of Eugene, OR, is president of the Murphy Co. He was born September 17, 1936, in Portland, OR. This is a reappointment.
John Roberts Opel, of Chappaqua, NY, is chief executive officer and president of the IBM Corp. He was born January 5, 1925, in Kansas City, MO. This is a reappointment.
Michael S. Robertson, of Falmouth, MA, is treasurer of Falmouth Marine, Inc. He was born July 20, 1935, in Boston, MA. This is a reappointment.
J. Gary Shanshy, of San Francisco, CA, is president and chief executive officer of Shaklee Corp. He was born August 25, 1937, in Seattle, WA. This is a reappointment.
Thomas C. Theobald, of Darien, CT, is vice chairman of Citibank in New York City. He was born May 5, 1937, in Cincinnati, OH. This is a reappointment.
  