
    
October 15, 2015
We run a notoriously efficient campaign here at Marco Rubio for President. Some would even call us cheapskates. Stephen Colbert has even made fun of us for it.
But it's worth it because we are committed to spending our donors contributions wisely and for the maximum possible effect. We know that contributing to our campaign is a sacrifice so we promise our donors to spend every penny wisely.
Here's a look at how our campaign spends with an eye on keeping costs as low as possible:
A Lean Campaign Staff
With 54 full-time staffers, our campaign team is smaller than some other presidential campaigns. That means we rely heavily on volunteer support whenever possible.
Flying Commercial
Rather than relying on charter flights on private jets, Marco and the team flies commercial. To date, we've flown on American Airlines, Delta, Frontier, Jet Blue, Southwest, Spirit, United Airlines, US Airlines, and Virgin America. If it's a flight that gets us where we need to go, when we need to get there, we take it.
Our luxurious campaign jet from LasVegas to Reno. #2016 #SpendingMoneySmart pic.twitter.com/BYUQqCfbks
— Terry Sullivan (@OnBackground) May 29, 2015

Location, Location, Location
We're not picky about where we sleep either. You can usually find us overnighting in one of these hotels when we're on the road: Country Inn & Suites, Courtyard, Doubletree, Embassy Suites, Fairfield Inn & Suites, Hampton Inn, Hilton Garden Inn, Holiday Inn, Marriott, or Sheraton.
Ridesharing
Marco is the candidate of the future, so it's no surprise that we're big fans of the sharing economy. From July to September we've taken 330 Uber trips (and 3 on Lyft).
Getting Creative
We're always looking for new ways to save money and conserve our resources, including buying furniture from Craigslist!
As you can tell, our commitment to spending our donors money wisely starts with Marco and runs throughout our campaign. Through our frugal spending we were able to start the month with $11 million in the bank.
  