
    "Nearly three years ago, President Obama said that if he didn't fix the economy he would be a one-term president. Mr. President, we agree. I am a conservative businessman who will get our economy back on track so that Americans are better off in the next four years." – Mitt Romney
Two-And-A-Half Years Ago, President Obama Laid Out A Timeline For Economic Recovery:

President Obama: "If I Don't Have This Done In Three Years, Then There's Going To Be A One-Term Proposition." (NBC's "Today," 2/2/09)

Earlier Today, The President Admitted What Millions Of Americans Know All Too Well:

President Obama Confirmed That Americans Are Not Better Off Than They Were Four Years Ago. QUESTION: "There are so many people who simply don't think they are better off than they were four years ago. How do you convince them that they are?" OBAMA: "Well, I don't think they are better off than they were four years ago." (ABC News, 10/3/11)

America Is In The Midst Of A Jobs And Employment Crisis – And President Obama's Policies Have Failed:
The Economy Added Zero Jobs In August And The Unemployment Rate Is Stuck Above 9%. "Nonfarm payroll employment was unchanged (0) in August, and the unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today. Employment in most major industries changed little over the month." (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 9/2/11)

"Nonfarm Employment For June And July Was Revised To Show 58,000 Fewer Jobs." (Reuters, 9/2/11)
  


"Employment Growth Ground To A Halt In August As Sagging Consumer Confidence Discouraged Already Skittish U.S. Businesses From Hiring..." (Reuters, 9/2/11)
  

The Country Has Lost Nearly Two-And-A-Half Million Payroll Jobs Since President Obama Took Office. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 10/3/11)
Roughly Twenty-Five Million Americans Are Out Of Work, Underemployed, Or Have Stopped Looking. (Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 10/3/11)
The National Unemployment Rate Has Been Above 8% For Thirty-One Consecutive Months. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 10/3/11)
  