
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation:
For the remainder of the terms expiring July 13, 1984:
Robert A. Valois would succeed William F. Harvey. Mr. Valois is an attorney with the firm of Maupin, Taylor & Ellis. He was born May 13, 1938, in New York, N.Y., and owe resides in Raleigh, N.C.
Leaanne Bernstein would succeed David E. Satterrield III. Mrs. Bernstein is Assistant to the President of the Legal Services Corporation. She was born February 22, 1950, in Poplar Bluff, Mo., and now resides in Baltimore, Md.
Claude Galbreath Swafford would succeed Howard H. Dana, Jr. She is in the private practice of law in South Pittsburg, Tenn. She was born December 7, 1925, in Greeneville, Tenn., and now resides in South Pittsburg.
Paul B. Eaglin would succeed Robert Sherwood Stubbs II. Mr. Eaglin is a partner in the law firm of Cooper, Davis, Eaglin & deSilva in Fayetteville, N.C He was born August 10, 1948, in Baltimore, Md., and now resides in Fayetteville.
Arnie Marie Gordon would succeed George E. Paras. Mrs. Gordon is president of Flatonia Community Club. She was born December 25, 1932, in Flatonia, Tex., where she currently resides.
Henry Chavira would succeed William J. Olson. Mr. Chavira is a sales representative for R. L. Pope & Co., in El Paso, Tex. He was born August 18, 1936, in El Paso, where he currently resides.
For terms expiring July 13, 1986:
Michael B. Wallace would succeed Donald Eugene Santarelli. Mr. Wallace is joining the law firm of Jones, Mockbee and Bass in Jackson, Miss. He was born December 1, 1951, in Biloxi, Miss., and now resides in Jackson.
William Clark Durant III would succeed Frank J. Donatelli. Mr. Durant is in the private practice of law in Detroit, Mich. He was born May 13, 1949, in Detroit and now resides in Grosse Point, Mich.
Robert Francis Kane would succeed Milton M. Masson. Mr. Kane is in the private practice of law in San Mateo, Calif. He was born March 15, 1926, in Denver, Colo., and now resides in San Mateo.
Bernard M. Bloom would succeed Daniel M. Rathbun. Mr. Bloom has served as judge of the Surrogate Court of Kings County (New York) since 1976. He was born August 21, 1926, in Brooklyn, N.Y., where he currently resides.
Pepe J. Mendez would succeed Robert E. McCarthy. Mr. Mendez is in the private practice of law in Denver, Colo. He was born September 4, 1945, in Gunnison, Colo., and now resides in Denver.
  