
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of former Speaker of the House Dennis Hastert and Illinois Congresswoman Judy Biggert.
"I am happy to have the support of these important leaders in Illinois," said Mitt Romney. "I look forward to partnering with them in our efforts to get America back to work."
"During my years in the House, I was an advocate for balanced budgets and low taxes," said Hastert. "Mitt Romney stands up for these principles. President Obama has failed to get millions of unemployed Americans back to work. From his success in the private sector, Mitt Romney understands how to create jobs and turn around this economy. At this critical moment, our country needs his leadership in the White House."
Announcing her support, Congresswoman Judy Biggert said, "President Obama's spend-tax-and-regulate policies have only served to drive up the debt and create more uncertainty for struggling American families and job creators. Mitt Romney's plan to get America back to work is rooted not only in sound economic principles, but also in the extensive real-world experience that he brings to the table. I am proud to support him."
Background On Speaker Hastert And Congresswoman Biggert:
Dennis Hastert Is The Former Speaker Of The House Of Representatives. He represented Illinois' 14th District in the U.S. House from 1987 to 2007. Prior to his election as Speaker, Hastert was Chief Deputy Majority Whip. Before entering Congress, he served in the Illinois General Assembly and taught high school history and government.
Congresswoman Judy Biggert Was First Elected To Represent The 13th District Of Illinois In 1998. She serves as Chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Insurance, Housing and Community Opportunity, and is a senior member of the Committees on Education and the Workforce and Science and Technology. Prior to entering Congress, she served in the Illinois House of Representatives. She previously practiced law and played an active role in her community, including roles such as President of the Board of Education of Hinsdale Township High School District 86.
  