
    Graham: "The Next President Of The United States Is Going To Have To Rearrange The Mid-East, Reestablish America's Presence In The World, Before It Continues To Fall Apart."
(FOX News Radio, "Lindsey Graham: Russia & Iran Are Slapping Pres. Obama In The Face," Kilmeade & Friends, 10/2/15)
Senator Lindsey Graham joined FOX News Radio's Kilmeade and Friends Friday where he responded to President Obama's handling of Russia's aggressive military presence in Syria and how he would address the situation as president. In case you missed it, listen to the full interview here.
"Number One, Our Biggest Problem Is That Our Commander-In-Chief Is Incompetent And Our Secretary Of State Is Delusional"

Graham On Russia's Involvement In Syria: "We Are Sitting On The Sidelines Not Doing A Damn Thing About It."
"Number one, our biggest problem is that our commander-in-chief is incompetent and our secretary of state is delusional regarding the politics of the Middle-East, Putin, Iran and just the entire situation over there. From a Russian point of view, this is a good move. What they are going to do is align with Iran, form a regional force with the Syrians & Iranians and now the Russians. And they are going to do what I was advocating we should do. They are probably going to go in on the ground and push out the Syrian rebels and they are going to give Assad some breathing space so he can hold on to power that will help Iran, that will help Russia. And we are sitting on the sidelines not doing a damn thing about it."
"With Assad being propped up by Russia and Iran, it means the war never ends."
On Obama's Attitude Towards Putin: "This is where the President doesn't understand Putin and the world."
"The President believes that Putin is kind of a dummy...that has blundered his way into Syria and he is going to get into a spot where he can't get out. This is where the President doesn't understand Putin and the world. What Putin is doing is using military force in conjunction with Iran to save his best ally in the Mid-East, Assad, to gain more control in Syria and have a larger voice in the Mid-East...What Obama doesn't understand is Putin is making a bold play, a smart play from the Russian point of view, but a nightmare for us."
On Russia And Iran: "Here Is What Russia And Iran Are Saying To Obama: You Are Weak...They Have No Respect For The United States."
"Here is what Russia and Iran are saying to Obama, you are weak, they are slapping him in the face, they have no respect for the man, they have no respect for the United States. If I am an Arab, I am really worried about what's going on, the Sunni/Arab nations now have in their backyard, a stronger Iran, more weapons, more money and an alliance with Russia that gives them a military advantage that they will enjoy today and Syria is going to be a launching pad for the next 9/11."
  