
    Thank you all. Thanks for that great rally. And thanks for the welcome back to Missouri. Thank you very, very much. Fantastic. Hey listen, I think you guys were -- I am glad to be out of that tag-team match over there. I think with my dear friends the Gatlin Brothers here and Lee, my other dear friend Lee Greenwood, you had the best of all worlds being over here, not over there.
You know, these debate things, the tension mounts. But there's one good thing about them: You can look right into that camera and take your message, unfiltered, right out there to the American people. You can get around, and I think our message is a message of hope. The other side would have you believe -- and the only way they can win is if they try to convince the American people that we are a nation in decline. And we are not. We are the United States. We are a rising nation, the most respected in the entire world.
Yes, we have problems. And on our Agenda for American Renewal we've got the answer to fix them. But it would be a sorry thing to think the only way you can do it is to tear down our country. And I'm glad I had an opportunity tonight to stand up for America and stand up for what is right.
We need to win this State, and I need your help. But we also need something else. We need to reelect Senator Kit Bond. He's doing an outstanding job there in the Senate. He's here with us tonight, and a great United States Senator. If we had more like him, we wouldn't have people going around yelling "Clean House!" We need to clean House and Senate; but keep Senator Bond there and send more like him, and watch us move this country forward. Clean the House, that's right.
You heard me tonight on there getting my 2 minutes in every once in a while, I'll tell you. But all I want to say to you is thank you for this. Do not let them get you discouraged about the United States. I believe I am going to win this election because I believe I have the trust of the American people. The election is about world peace. The election is about who has brought change. Governor Clinton talks about change, change, change; that's all you'll have left in your pocket if you put him in there. We don't need any more tax-and-spend. Stay with our program, and watch us move this country forward.
Thank you all. And on a night like this, Lee says it better, but "God Bless the U.S.A." Thank you all very, very much.
  