
    On Tuesday, October 14, 2008, the President signed into law:
H.R. 1594, which designates the Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic in Hermitage, Pennsylvania, as the Michael A. Marzano Department of Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic;
H.R. 2786, the "Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Reauthorization Act of 2008," which reauthorizes the Department of Housing and Urban Development's affordable housing programs for Native Americans and creates a new guaranteed loan program for community and economic development activities for tribes;
H.R. 6098, the "Personnel Reimbursement for Intelligence Cooperation and Enhancement of Homeland Security Act of 2008" or the "PRICE of Homeland Security Act," which prohibits the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) from imposing a limit of more or less than 50 percent on the amount of funds received under specified DHS grant programs that can be used to pay salaries and benefits for State and local personnel; and removes the limitations on the period of time that intelligence analysts can serve under awarded grants;
H.R. 7198, the "Stephanie Tubbs Jones Gift of Life Medal Act of 2008," which provides for the establishment of the Stephanie Tubbs Jones Gift of Life Medal for organ donors and families of organ donors;
S. 906, the "Mercury Export Ban Act of 2008," which prohibits the transfer of elemental mercury by Federal agencies, bans U.S. export of elemental mercury, and requires the Department of Energy to designate and manage an elemental mercury long-term disposal facility;
S. 1276, the "Methamphetamine Production Prevention Act of 2008," which specifies methods, when sellers of certain pharmaceuticals use electronic logbooks, of obtaining signatures of purchasers in meeting Federal requirements for recording transactions at the time of the sale; and
S. 2304, the "Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Reauthorization and Improvement Act of 2008," which reauthorizes a Justice Department grant program to assist mentally ill adults and juveniles accused of nonviolent offenses; and authorizes a new Justice grant program to help law enforcement personnel respond appropriately to mentally ill offenders.
  