
    Today, Mitt Romney announced that Secretary Carlos Gutierrez will serve as chair, and Rod Hunter and John Herrmann as co-chairs, of his Trade Policy Advisory Group. The group will help Romney formulate pro-growth trade policies that open markets around the world for American goods and services while ensuring that trading partners play by the rules and welcome robust competition. Romney will discuss his vision for American trade policy, and its role in economic growth and job creation, today at Microsoft's headquarters in Redmond, WA. "Free trade is essential to restoring robust economic growth and creating jobs," said Mitt Romney. "American businesses and workers are unparalleled in their productivity and ingenuity, and when we are given the opportunity to compete we have shown we can win. My Trade Policy Advisory Group has been instrumental in shaping the policies that I presented last month in my economic plan, Believe in America, which will reverse the stagnation brought about by the Obama administration's neglect of our trading interests. I look forward to working with this team on a strategy for international trade that will produce the right environment for economic growth and job creation." "Mitt Romney has the right combination of private sector experience, conservative principles, and leadership to address the enormous challenges that the United States faces in the international economy," said former Secretary of Commerce Carlos Gutierrez. "His trade agenda is unique in its steadfast commitment to free trade coupled with a willingness to confront nations that betray principles of free enterprise to exploit our own open market. This approach is necessary to restore a pro-growth business environment that will create jobs." Background On The Chair And Co-Chairs Of The Trade Policy Advisory Group:

Carlos Gutierrez Served As Secretary Of Commerce From 2005 To 2009. Gutierrez also served as Co-Chair of the U.S. Commission for Assistance to a Free Cuba. Prior to entering government service, Gutierrez was the President and CEO of the Kellogg Company.


Rod Hunter Served On The National Security Council Staff From 2003 To 2007. Hunter was a Special Assistant to the President and NSC Senior Director for International Trade, Energy, and Environment. Prior to the NSC, Hunter served as Special Counsel in the Office of the United States Trade Representative.


John Herrmann Served On The National Security Council Staff From 2005 To 2009. Herrmann was NSC Director for International Trade and Investment, and then served as a Special Assistant to the President and NSC Senior Director for International Trade, Energy, and Environment.

  