
    
Handily wins 37 percent of votes cast in key contest

LAKE JACKSON, Texas—2012 Republican Presidential candidate Ron Paul placed first in the 2011 Values Voter Straw Poll today garnering an impressive 37 percent of the total number of votes cast.
In placing first, Dr. Paul placed ahead of Herman Cain, Rick Santorum and Rick Perry who placed second, third and fourth with a mere 23, 16 and 8 percent, respectively.
Held annually each year since 2007, the Values Voter Summit presidential straw poll is seen as a benchmark for how well Republican candidates will appeal to Christian conservative activists. Endorsement by this core activist community is likely to energize voters nationwide that identify with family-friendly issues such as parental decision-making concerning children's education, less government interference in local communities, and the sanctity of human life.
"Dr. Paul's standing among Christian conservative voters is growing as people become more familiar with the man as well as the message,"said Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"Dr. Paul is a humble man of faith, who has personally delivered more than 4,000 babies, so he's well acquainted with the sanctity of life. And importantly, he never fails to connect the worthiness of the liberty message he champions with that system's moral superiority over schemes that promote coercive government activism leading to the breakdown of the American family,"said Mr. Benton.
Speaking of Dr. Paul's speech earlier today Doug Wead, a born again Christian and former adviser to two U.S. Presidents, said he was blown away by Dr. Paul's command of the scripture. "He offered a scriptural rationale to every position and moved from one passage to the next without hesitation. The man knows the Bible."
Mr. Wead says that the rising numbers of born again Christians turning to Dr. Paul shows that, "For many of us, the best way to assure our own religious freedom is to get back to the Constitution and defend everybody else's freedoms too."
To view Dr. Paul's statement of faith, click here. To view his positions on abortion and homeschooling click here and here, respectively.
  