
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 3
In the afternoon, the President met with Vice Premier Qian Qichen of China.
October 4
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Michael Nussman as a Commissioner (Recreational Fishing Representative) of the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Susan, Shirley A. Jackson, and Dan Berkowitz to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ray Gwen and Robert Jones as U.S. Commissioners to the North Atlantic Salmon Conservation Organization.
October 5
In the morning, the President went to Capitol Hill where he attended a Senate prayer breakfast.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton attended an AmeriCorps reception in the Roosevelt Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations:
—Robert Allen;
—Edwin L. Artzt;
—Owen Bieber;
—Robert J. Eaton;
—George M.C. Fisher;
—Kathryn S. Fuller;
—George Harris;
—Jerry Junkins;
—Rhoda Karpatkin;
—J. Bruce Llewellyn;
—Jack Valenti;
—Linda J. Wachner; and
—Andrew Young.
The President announced his intention to appoint Robert G. Valentine as a member of the Utah Reclamation Mitigation and Conservation Commission.
The President announced the following three additional appointments to the Committee on Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Personal Motor Vehicles:
—Patrick Dougherty;
—Sonia Hamel; and
—George Giek.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kenneth L. Salazar as Chair of the Rio Grande Compact Commission.
October 6
In the morning, the President traveled to Norfolk, VA. Following his arrival, he went to the U.S. Atlantic Command Headquarters where he was given a briefing by Adm. Paul D. Miller, commander in chief of the U.S. Atlantic Command, and military officials on the situation in Haiti. He then participated in a video teleconference with military commanders in Haiti.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. He then met with Prime Minister Chuan Likphai of Thailand in the late afternoon.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the Republic of the Marshall Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement the Republic's recovery efforts in the area struck by high tides.
The President announced that he has nominated Robert Pitofsky as Chair of the Federal Trade Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gov. William J. Sheffield as Chair and member of the Federal Salary Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint Gov. George A. Sinner as Chair and member of the Commission on Presidential Scholars.
  