
    BOROUGH PARK (2:30 p.m.)
Let me say a word for just a minute, if I might. It is a great privilege and a very high honor to have the opportunity of being in Brooklyn with Senator Javits and Senator Buckley and to have an opportunity to thank you all for the very warm reception. Over the years I have had many, many opportunities to come to this great city and know intimately many of the fine people in Brooklyn, New York City.
We have a great country. We must keep strong within our country by making certain that we spend your tax dollars in a responsible and a proper way. We must make certain that we find the best way, the fairest way for the Federal Government to tax all of you. I happen to believe very strongly that the middle-income taxpayer of this country has been shortchanged and that the middle-income taxpayer needs a tax reduction in the way that I proposed by increasing the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. And we're going to get it in the next session of Congress.
But it is also important that we find the best answer to making America prosperous again. And we can do that by the right tax policies that give more tax reduction to the taxpayers and hold a reasonable restraint on the expenditure of Federal funds.
Let me say this: I will never be satisfied until everybody who wants to work can find a job, period.
Let me in conclusion make this observation. America is strong; America is secure. There is not a single young American boy fighting or dying on foreign soil today. We are at peace, and we should be proud of it. We have the military capability and the diplomatic skill to keep the peace.
So, I pledge to each and every one of you that we will have a strong and prosperous economy. We will have a peace that is secure. And you can trust your President, who has restored trust in the White House.Thank you very, very much.
BAY RIDGE (3 p.m.)
Let me say just a few words. I think we can say with pride, we can say with the fullest, complete conviction, that we are doing the right thing for this country. I am the first President in 20 years who can go before the American people and say that our Nation is at peace. There is not a single young American fighting or dying on any foreign soil today, and we should be proud of it. And we have the military capability and the diplomatic skills to keep the peace, and you will under a Ford administration.
But we have to have a healthy economy at home, and that means a job for everybody who wants a job; it means a home for everybody who will work for it and save for it. And that means we have to get rid of the crime on the streets so that you and your children will be free of any terrorism, either at home or abroad. It means that you have to have the best education, the kind of health care that you need and that you can afford.
So, we want only good health, good education, a better tax system, responsible action in meeting the problems of crime, equality of life in America.
Let me conclude by one final comment. I think the middle-income taxpayer in this country is getting shortchanged, and the best way to give him the right kind of tax relief is to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That's what we need and that's what we'll get.
Thank you all very much.
[At this point, the President's motorcade proceeded from 82d Street and Fifth Avenue to 84th Street and Fifth Avenue, where the President spoke as follows:]
Hi, how are you? Nice to see you.
Let me make one or two comments. I am delighted to be here in this wonderful community with Senator Jack Javits and Senator Jim Buckley. Give them a big hand.
Let me say very quickly, what do we want in America? We want peace, and we want prosperity, and we want trust. Under your President, Jerry Ford has restored trust in the White House. You can now believe what you hear out of the White House.
Number two, America is at peace. There is not a single young American fighting and dying on foreign soil today, and we're going to keep it that way.
But we want to give a better quality of life right here in America. What we want is a job for everybody who wants to work, and we will get him a job. We want a home for everybody who will work and save for it, and we are going to get that under the next 4 years. We want to be certain that you can walk down this street or that street and be safe, and we are going to take care of the crime problem in America, period.
We want these young people that I have seen on both sides of the street-we want them to get an education so that they can not only have an education but one that will do them good when they get old enough and want a job. And we're going to get that in the education system.
But let me just conclude with this observation. November 2 is a critical testing point for America. It you want a country that is strong at home, strong abroad, and with peace and prosperity, vote for Jerry Ford. I ask for your support.
Thank you.
  