
    In order to maintain America's military supremacy, we must always be on the cutting edge.President Donald J. Trump
STRENGTHENING OUR DEFENSE INDUSTRIAL BASE: President Donald J. Trump is committed to ensuring our military is supported by the greatest technological, manufacturing, and industrial capabilities in the world.

Today, President Donald J. Trump received a comprehensive review of our Nation's defense industrial and manufacturing base.

In July 2017, President Trump directed his Administration to assess our defense industrial base and supply chain resiliency and offer ways to strengthen it.


The report found nearly three hundred risks to our Nation's defense industrial and manufacturing base and offered comprehensive solutions to ensure readiness.
The Administration is taking steps to execute on the recommendations by:

Expanding direct investment in the industrial base to address critical bottlenecks, support fragile suppliers, and mitigate single points-of-failure.
Accelerating workforce development efforts to grow domestic science, technology, engineering, mathematics (STEM) education, and critical trade skills.
Working with allies and partners on joint industrial base challenges.



ASSESSING OUR READINESS: The Trump Administration conducted a comprehensive review to help ensure our National defense is able to meet new and unforeseen challenges.

President Trump recognizes that the ability to deter conflict in an era of great power competition depends on a healthy defense industrial base.

Our Nation must have the ability to arm our warfighters to meet new and unforeseen strategic challenges.


This rigorous assessment will help ensure that our military and national security community has the tools and workforce necessary to carry our Nation into the future.
The Trump Administration took a whole-of-government approach in this assessment.

The effort was led by the Department of Defense.
Over 300 experts from the Departments of Defense, Commerce, Labor, Energy, Homeland Security, and other agencies were involved in developing the report.


The Administration led an unprecedented assessment of the defense industrial base, including traditional sectors, like shipbuilding, as well as other components like the workforce.

PROTECTING OUR HOMELAND: President Trump is taking steps to protect our Nation against any and all threats we may face. 

In December 2017, President Trump released his National Security Strategy, which highlights the importance of a healthy industrial base as a critical element of United States power.
President Trump has enacted tariffs to protect our Nation's domestic aluminum and steel industries, which are vital to our national security.
President Trump has recently released new strategies on counterterrorism, cybersecurity, and biodefense, which will modernize our defenses and strengthen our national security.

  