
    
  Romney's environmental policies and advisors now being used by President Obama

Mitt Romney and President Obama are carbon copies when it comes to environmental policies, as evident in the video "Romney and Obama: Carbon Copies"


"Mitt Romney and President Obama are carbon copies," said Perry spokesman Mark Miner. "In addition to designing the blueprint for Obamacare, Mr. Romney has provided President Obama with environmental policies and advisors. Americans cannot afford another four years of job-killing policies inspired by Mitt Romney and implemented by President Obama."
The Wall Street Journal recently investigated Mr. Romney's liberal environmental record:
Just days after his 2002 election, Mr. Romney hired Douglas Foy, one of the state's most prominent environmental activists, and put him in charge of supervising four state agencies. ... With Mr. Foy by his side, Mr. Romney joined activists outside an aging, coal-fired plant in 2003 to show his commitment to the emissions caps. "I will not create jobs or hold jobs that kill people, and that plant, that plant kills people," he said. [1]
Mr. Romney later implemented job-killing carbon caps for Massachusetts:
On Dec. 7, 2005, the Romney administration unveiled the final orders. "These carbon emission limits will provide real and immediate progress in the battle to improve our environment," then-Gov. Romney said in a press release touting Massachusetts as "the first and only state to set CO2 emissions limits on power plants." [1]
Two former Romney environmental advisors are now members of the Obama Administration.
Gina McCarthy, the Environmental Protection Agency's top air pollution official, was Mr. Romney's "green quarterback." [2]
John Holdren, Obama's science czar, advised Romney on implementing his greenhouse gas policy and was highlighted in the 2005 press release announcing Massachusetts' carbon caps. [3, 4]
Sources:
[1] Romney Environment Push Is Fresh Target for His Rivals, Wall Street Journal, 10/6/11, WSJ.com
[2] EPA Official Was Romney's 'Green Quarterback,' National Journal, 9/22/11, NationalJournal.com
[3] Romney Announces Strict New Clean Air Regulations To Take Effect January 1, Press Release, 12/7/05, scribd.com
[4] Obama's Science Czar Considered Forced Abortions, Sterilization as Population Growth Solutions, FoxNews.com, 7/21/09, FoxNews.com
  