
    President Trump is fighting for more choice, higher quality and lower costs.
President Trump has fought to improve the lives of all Americans—and that begins with ensuring the American people have access to affordable, world class healthcare.
President Trump has also repeatedly made it clear that he will always protect Americans with pre-existing conditions. President Trump recently signed an executive order making it the official policy of the federal government. President Trump has made "cover all pre-existing conditions" a key point in his second term agenda.
Thanks to President Trump's reforms, premiums for Obamacare plans are declining for the third year straight. President Trump is the only candidate in the race who will actually fight for American patients.
The President and his Administration have taken numerous actions to increase choice and competition in health care to bring down costs, saving Americans billions of dollars.


The Trump Administration has expanded the use of short-term, limited-duration health insurance (STLD) plans, which offer more choices at lower costs to consumers.

The Trump Administration has expanded access to Association Health Plans (AHPs), which make it easier for small businesses to band together to offer better insurance and lower premiums for their workers.

The Trump Administration expanded Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs), allowing employees to use money from their employer to buy the insurance of their choice.

President Trump has taken a number of actions to dismantle the worst parts of Obamacare, and President Trump's policies have cut Obamacare premiums for consumers.


The Trump tax cuts repealed Obamacare's unpopular individual mandate, which primarily hurt middle-class and lower-income Americans.

President Trump signed legislation to repeal the unpopular Obamacare Independent Payment Advisory Board (IPAB).

Over the last two years, premiums for Obamacare plans are declining.

The Trump Administration is working to protect the most vulnerable in our healthcare system.


President Trump is committed to protecting Americans with pre-existing conditions.

President Trump signed the historic Right to Try legislation, giving terminally ill patients hope and the ability to try new experimental drugs.

President Trump signed the Childhood Cancer STAR Act, investing $30 million a year for child cancer research.

President Trump has taken action to expand the availability of organ donations.

President Trump is working to set ambitious health care goals.


President Trump put forward principles to stop surprise medical billing.

In 2019, President Trump set a goal to end the HIV/AIDS epidemic in the United States within a decade.

President Trump is aggressively fighting to bring down drug prices and the American people are seeing the results.


The White House Council of Economic Advisors has said the U.S. is making progress on drug prices at rates not seen since the 1960s.

So far, in every year of the Trump Administration, the FDA has approved a record number of generic drugs, delivering cheaper alternatives to name brands.

The Trump Administration released new principles for reducing the cost of prescription drugs which was praised by both Republicans and Democrats.

President Trump signed legislation to improve transparency in drug pricing and is fighting to bring lower drug prices that the rest of the world sees to America.

The Trump Administration is helping Medicare recipients by providing better price transparency and eliminating kickbacks, saving thousands of dollars for America's seniors.

The Trump administration has worked to allow the importation of cheaper drugs from Canada and other countries to reduce prescription drug costs.

President Trump worked to help lower income Americans gain access to life-saving medications, including insulin, at affordable costs.

  