
    Pool Reports by Ken Thomas, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




October 3, 202110:08

Travel pool report #1 - On the move 
Good Sunday morning from Wilmington, Del., on the final day of the Major League Baseball regular season. (Good luck to all of you who root for teams in the playoff hunt). We have hazy, overcast skies and a temperature of 64 degrees F. The pool received Covid-19 tests this morning.
President Biden's motorcade departed his residence at 10:06 a.m. ET, destination TBD. The pool has joined the motorcade and we are rolling.



October 3, 202110:20

Travel pool #2 - Church 
President Biden's motorcade arrived at St. Joseph on the Brandywine Church at 10:09 a.m., where he is attending Mass. The pool was at a distance and still inside the bus as Mr. Biden walked into the church. He appeared to be wearing a blue sports coat and black slacks. It was not clear if he was accompanied by family members as he arrived.
A man stood outside the church's fence and held a homemade sign that read: "Joe Biden Equals Abortion Euthanasia and Infanticide."
The pool is now holding along the street outside the church.



October 3, 202111:08

Travel pool report #3 - Leaving Church
President Biden exited St. Joseph on the Brandywine at 11:01 a.m. after attending Mass. He was accompanied by his daughter-in-law, Hallie Biden, and his grandchildren, Natalie and Hunter Biden.
Mr. Biden, holding what appeared to be the parish bulletin in his left hand, spoke briefly with a parishioner near the entrance to the church, and then patted him on the shoulder and pumped his fist.
The president then walked along a pathway that is surrounded by the church's cemetery, joined by his family members, and then boarded his SUV.
The motorcade departed at 11:04 a.m. and is now rolling.



October 3, 202111:14

Travel pool report #4 - Coffee shop
President Biden's motorcade made an unscheduled stop at the Powder Mill Square shopping center near his Wilmington church at 11:07 a.m. The president is stopping at Brew HaHa, a coffee shop near his home.
The pool is holding in the bus outside the coffee shop



October 3, 202111:46

Travel pool report #5 - Holding outside coffee shop 
11:44 a.m. The pool is holding in a bus about 30 yards away from Brew HaHa!, a Wilmington coffee shop. About a dozen people are standing around near the cafe. The pool can see Secret Service personnel screening some people before they enter the restaurant.
The pool is told that President Biden is having breakfast with his daughter-in-law Hallie Biden and his grandchildren, Natalie Biden and Hunter Biden.
More TK.



October 3, 202112:43

Travel pool report #6 - Departing Brew HaHa! 
President Biden exited BrewHaHa!, a Wilmington coffee shop, at 12:21 p.m. after having breakfast with members of his family. He spent a little more than an hour at the restaurant, where a White House aide said he sat with his two grandchildren and daughter-in-law at an outdoor patio.
The pool was brought to a sidewalk near the entrance of the coffeehouse for his departure. The pool could see Mr. Biden stop briefly to greet a woman seated at an outdoor table. The president then posed for a photograph with the woman taken by Ashley Williams, the president's deputy director of Oval Office Operations. As Mr. Biden walked to the Beast, a member of the pool shouted a question about the recent milestone of 700,000 Covid-19 deaths in America and his legislative agenda. The president did not appear to respond.
Before leaving, Mr. Biden lingered and popped his head above the roofline of his SUV as people standing in the parking lot cheered. Mr. Biden, who was wearing his trademark Aviator sunglasses on a sunny day, waved to the crowd.
Kyle Mazza, of UNF News, who was in the crowd, asked the president about his brunch. Mr. Biden responded, "Great!"
Mr. Mazza then asked, "Do you like coming to Wilmington?" The president responded: "Home. Can't beat it. I love it."
The motorcade departed the coffeehouse and dropped the president off at his home at 12:28 p.m. The pool is now heading to a hold nearby.



October 3, 202114:36

Travel pool report #7 - Lid 
The White House declared a lid at 2:34 p.m.
Enjoy the rest of your weekend.




  