
    "I think the key message is that you know, whether you are a small business owner currently or whether you are like Joe the Plumber and your goal is to own a small business one day, that we want to be encouraged for our hard work in pursuing the American dream and not necessarily penalized for it. And when Obama makes a comment like he wants to spread the wealth around, it causes small business owners and those would be small business owners to take pause because it goes against the grain of the American dream, which is work hard and benefit from the fruits of your labor in order to pass along something to the next generation." --April Byrd
April Byrd
FOX News' "Your World"
October 22, 2008
FOX News' Neil Cavuto: "With us now, one of those small business owners in that ad. April Byrd operates a small construction company with her brother. It is called Solid as a Rock. April, obviously, you relate to Joe. But what do you think is the key message you are sending here?"
April Byrd: "I think the key message is that you know, whether you are a small business owner currently or whether you are like Joe the Plumber and your goal is to own a small business one day, that we want to be encouraged for our hard work in pursuing the American dream and not necessarily penalized for it. And when Obama makes a comment like he wants to spread the wealth around, it causes small business owners and those would be small business owners to take pause because it goes against the grain of the American dream, which is work hard and benefit from the fruits of your labor in order to pass along something to the next generation."
Cavuto: "Well let me ask you April, you are I guess among those successful business folks who are considered one of the fat cats, one of the rich targets. How'd you feel about that?"
Byrd: "I do not consider myself a fat cat at all. We, my family business is a construction company. It's very labor intensive. I come from a long line of blue- collar workers that work hard with their hands, they get dirty every day. I would not consider us fat cats at all. We live within our means, contribute to our community, get involved with our community, and for someone to consider us one of the top five percent elites, so to speak in this country, and want to penalize us with higher taxes in order to spread the wealth around, it just does not sit very well."
Cavuto: "April you do not sound very elitist to me. Thank you very much for stopping by."
WatchThe Interview
WatchThe Ad
  