
    
Marco opposes Chapter 9 bankruptcy for Puerto Rico and believes it should only be a last resort.
But Hillary Clinton, liberal politicians on the island and their allies in Congress want it now, because they refuse to make tough choices to cut spending and end job-killing policies.
Marco reviewed the bankruptcy option, which many suggested was as the only way out of Puerto Rico's financial mess. He disagreed and challenged the island's leaders to get serious about pursuing fiscal reforms first.
By the time Puerto Rico bankruptcy legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate on July 15th, Marco had already decided not to support it and was never one of its co-sponsors.
On September 4th, Marco visited San Juan and made his views on bankruptcy clear in a local media availability and an op-ed published in Spanish in El Nuevo Dia and in English on Medium, where he also laid out other ways he would serve the 3.5 million U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico.
Hillary Clinton and her allies know that Marco is the best candidate to take her on and defeat her in a general election. That's why they are attempting to distort his conservative, pro-growth agenda for the U.S. and its territories.
In sum, Marco's only position on this issue has been to not support Chapter 9 bankruptcy legislation. And his decision not to co-sponsor the bankruptcy bill was made in early July — well before what Hillary's attack dogs now claim.
Marco's top priorities for Puerto Rico's future are to:

Encourage San Juan to cut spending, rein in out-of-control big government and eliminate job- killing tax and regulatory policies.
Make low-paying work more attractive through conservative reforms to the Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC) that make it a wage enhancement paid throughout the year and apply it equally to U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico.
Achieve pro-growth, pro-family tax reform that, among other things, creates a new $2,500 Child Tax Credit for every child and applies it equally to U.S. citizens in Puerto Rico.
Repeal and replace ObamaCare, end the federal government's disproportionate treatment of Puerto Rico under Medicare, and implement health reforms that treat Puerto Rican consumers as they would mainland U.S. consumers.
Support a federally sponsored vote in Puerto Rico to resolve its status and, should a majority support statehood, do what's necessary to admit them as the 51st state.
Oppose Chapter 9 bankruptcy in the absence of serious fiscal reforms.

  