
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
October 8
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md., to attend a concert by Leontyne Price in the East Room. He then returned to Camp David.
October 9
While at Camp David, the President discussed energy legislation with 15 Governors in a telephone conference call.
October 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Senator Muriel Humphrey of Minnesota, Representative Augustus Hawkins of California, and a group of administration officials and citizens, to discuss the Humphrey-Hawkins full employment legislation;
—Foreign Minister Moshe Dayan of Israel and members of the Israeli delegation to the peace negotiations. The President has declared a major disaster for the State of California as a result of landslides, beginning on October 2, which caused extensive public and private property damage.
October 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Senate Minority Leader Robert C. Byrd;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of the American Association of Editorial Cartoonists;
—John M. Carey, national commander of the American Legion;
—Senator Adlai E. Stevenson of Illinois;
—Acting Foreign Minister Butrus Ghali and Defense Minister Kamel Hassan All of Egypt.
October 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, Senator Russell B. Long of Louisiana, and Representative Al Ullman of Oregon, to discuss tax legislation;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—members of the New York congressional delegation;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—a group of Congressmen to discuss energy legislation.
October 15
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mr. Moore;
—Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York;
—Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—a group of editors and news directors (transcript will be printed next week).
The President attended a portion of the annual meeting of the National Alliance of Business, Inc., in Room 450 of the Old Executive Office Building.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1977 annual report of the National Credit Union Administration and the 7th annual Railroad Safety Report.
  