
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

When the National School Lunch Program was established by President Truman in 1946, it built upon decades of local commitment by parents, educators, and community leaders who recognized a simple but important fact: hungry children can't learn. Today, for millions of students, the National School Lunch Program provides nutritious meals that serve as a vital foundation for learning and growing. Many of these children receive their only nutritious meal of the day at school. Thanks to this practical and effective program, children and adolescents in school cafeterias across our country not only have the opportunity to enjoy a wholesome and balanced meal each day, but they also begin to understand the importance of making healthy eating choices.
Unfortunately, the eating habits of America's children and adolescents often fall short. Parents, educators, school administrators, food service professionals, and community leaders must work in partnership to ensure that our youth learn the importance of good nutrition to overall good health. Learning about nutrition in school and having the daily opportunity to eat a well-balanced meal can help children develop the eating habits necessary to excel in the classroom and in life.
In recognition of the contributions of the National School Lunch Program to the health, education, and well-being of our Nation's children, the Congress, by joint resolution of October 9, 1962 (Public Law 87-780), has designated the week beginning on the second Sunday in October of each year as "National School Lunch Week" and has requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 11 through October 17, 1998, as National School Lunch Week. I call upon all Americans to join the dedicated individuals who lead child nutrition programs at the State and local levels in appropriate activities and celebrations that promote these programs.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twenty-third.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  