
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate twelve individuals and his intention to appoint seven individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate James T. Morris for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to Food and Agricultural Organizations. Morris is presently the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IWC Resources Corporation and Indianapolis Water Company. From 1973 to 1989, he served with Lilly Endowment, Inc., as the Director of Community Development, Vice President of Community Development, Executive Vice President and then President from 1984 to 1989. Morris was Administrative Assistant and Chief of Staff to then-Mayor of Indianapolis, Richard Lugar, from 1967 to 1973. He has received an undergraduate degree from Indiana University and a M. B. A. from Butler University.
The President intends to nominate James D. McGee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Swaziland. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. McGee has served as Counselor for Administrative Affairs in Cote d?Ivoire since 1999. From 1995 to 1999, he was Chief of the Administrative Section in Jamaica, and from 1992 to 1995, he was Chief of the Administrative Section in Barbados. McGee served in Washington, D.C. from 1991 to 1992, as an International Relations Officer in the Office of Financial Management Services in the Bureau of Finance and Management Policy. He is a graduate of Indiana University.
The President intends to nominate Eve Slater to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services for Health. Dr. Slater is presently Senior Vice President for Clinical and Regulatory Development of Merck Research Laboratories. Her responsibilities include Worldwide Regulatory Affairs, Over the Counter Product Clinical Development, Merck Research Laboratories Public Affairs, Outcomes Research and Late Phase Clinical Leaders. Slater held several positions with Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories from 1986 to 1994, including Executive Director of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology and Vice President for Clinical and Regulatory Development. Her medical career includes services as the Chief of the Hypertension Unit at Massachusetts General from 1977 to 1983. Dr. Slater is a resident of New Jersey and a graduate of Vassar College and Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
The President intends to nominate Sally Stroup to be Assistant Secretary of Education for Postsecondary Education. Stroup is currently the Director of Industry and Government Affairs for the Apollo Group Inc., and the University of Phoenix. From 1993 to 2001, she was a Professional Staff Member for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Education and the Workforce. From 1981 to 1993, Stroup was with the Pennsylvania Higher Education Assistance Agency first as a Staff Attorney, then Senior Staff Attorney and then Senior Vice President of Legal Services and the Chief Counsel. Stroup is a graduate of Indiana University of Pennsylvania and Loyola University School of Law in New Orleans, Louisiana.
The President intends to nominate Franz S. Leichter to be a Member of the Federal Housing Finance Board. Leichter has been a member of the Federal Housing Finance Board since August of 2000. He was first elected to the New York State Legislature as a Member of the Assembly in 1968. In 1974, Leichter was elected to the State Senate where he served until 1998. He is a graduate of Swarthmore College and Harvard University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Allan I. Mendelowitz to be a Member of the Federal Housing Finance Board for the remainder of a term expiring February 27, 2007. Mendelowitz has served as a member of the Federal Housing Finance Board since December of 2000, and was appointed to be Executive Director of the U.S. Trade Deficit Review Commission. He has previously served as Executive Vice President of the Export - Import Bank of the United States and Managing Director for International Trade, Finance and Economic Competitiveness at the General Accounting Office. Dr. Mendelowitz received his undergraduate degree from Columbia University and both his Master's and Ph.D. from Northwestern University.
The President intends to nominate Joseph Timothy Kelliher to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission. Kelliher is currently a Senior Policy Advisor at the Department of Energy and was formerly Of Counsel at LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene and MacRae. From 1995 to 2000, Kelliher served as Majority Counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Commerce, and from 1991 to 1995, he was Manager of Federal Affairs for Public Service Electric and Gas Company. He is a former member of the staff of Congressman Joe Barton from Texas and Director of the House Republican Energy and Environment Task Force. He is a graduate of Georgetown University and American University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Samuel E. Ebbesen to be a Member of the Board of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Ebbesen has been President and Chief Executive Officer of the Virgin Islands Telephone since 1998. Prior to his current position, he served as Vice President of the Association of the United States Army. Mr. Ebbesen retired as a Three Star General from the U.S. Army in 1997, after thirty-five years of service. A resident of St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands, he is a graduate of City College of New York and received a Master's degree in Public Administration from Auburn University.
The President intends to nominate Collister Johnson, Jr. to be a Member of the Board of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for the remainder of a term expiring December 17, 2001, and for an additional term expiring December 17, 2004. Johnson is presently a Senior Consultant with Mercer Management Consulting and from 1993 to 1997, he was President and CEO of FastShip Atlantic, Inc. He previously served with Mercer Management Consulting from 1991 to 1993, and was Senior Vice President and Assistant to the Chairman of WFS Financial Corporation from 1988 to 1991. Johnson was Senior Vice President of Presidential Airways and Director of the Washington Dulles International Airport from 1985 to 1988. In 1986, Johnson was appointed by the Governor of Virginia to serve as Chairman of the Virginia Port Authority, a position he held until 1994. He is a graduate of Yale University and the University of Virginia Law School.
The President intends to nominate Arthur E. Dewey to be Assistant Secretary of State for Population, Refugees and Migration. Dewey is currently an Independent Consultant in Political and Military Affairs. From 1997 to 1999, he was a Professor in Residence at the U.S. Army Peacekeeping Institute and from 1994 to 1997, he was Executive Director of the Congressional Hunger Center, the private sector successor to the U.S. House former Select Committee on Hunger. In 1991, Dewey became the Director of the U.S. Office of Emergency Humanitarian Assistance for the New Independent States at the U.S. Agency for International Development. From 1986 to 1990, Dewey was United Nations Assistant Secretary General and UN Deputy High Commissioner for Refugees, and from 1981 to 1986, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Refugee Programs. Dewey was a member of the U.S. Army from 1956 to 1981, and received an undergraduate degree from West Point and a Master's degree from Princeton University.
The President intends to nominate Kenneth Lawson to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Enforcement. Lawson is presently an Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Middle District of Florida in Tampa. From 1991 to 1994, he was a Military Prosecutor in the U.S. Marine Corps and also served as a Special Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of North Carolina. Lawson received both an undergraduate and law degree from Florida State University.
The President intends to nominate Robert H. Roswell to be Undersecretary of Health at the Department of Veterans Affairs. A Colonel in the Medical Corps of the U.S. Army Reserve, Roswell has been Network Director of the Florida and Puerto Rico Veterans Integrated Service Network of the Veterans Health Administration since 1995. He also serves as a Professor in the Department of Environmental and Occupational Health at the College of Public Health at the University of South Florida. From 1994 to 1999, Roswell was the Executive Director of the Persian Gulf Veterans Coordinating Board and from 1993 to 1995, he was Chief of Staff of the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Birmingham, Alabama. Roswell has also served at Veterans Administration facilities in Dallas, Washington, D.C. and Oklahoma City. He is a graduate of Oklahoma State University and Oklahoma University Medical School.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad for a term of three years:
Rabbi Zvi Kestenbaum of New York Albert Glickman of Maine Ari Storch of Maryland Rabbi Daniel Lapin of Washington Laura Raybin Miller of Florida Vincent Obsitnik of Virginia August B. Pust of Ohio.
  