
    
  Gov. Blunt, Sen. DeMint, And Sen. Gregg To Serve As Co-Chairs

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney named Governor Matt Blunt (R-MO), Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC) and Senator Judd Gregg (R-NH) as National Co-Chairs of the Romney for President campaign. As National Co-Chairs, they will serve as key advisers to Governor Romney and his national campaign.
Making today's announcement, Governor Romney said, "As leaders in their respective states and for our country, these men bring an incredible depth of knowledge and experience to our campaign to build a stronger America with a stronger military, stronger economy and stronger families. In the coming weeks and months, their support will be critical as we mobilize our grassroots effort throughout the nation."
"Our country faces a new generation of challenges that demand a leader who has the experience to meet those challenges. Whether in the private sector, at the 2002 Winter Olympics or in Massachusetts, Governor Romney has a proven record of leadership and exceptional experience in turning around troubled institutions. Governor Romney is the best candidate to bring real change to Washington," said Governor Matt Blunt (R-MO).
A day after making live www.JimDeMint.com, his own re-election web site, Senator Jim DeMint said, "Governor Mitt Romney is the standard-bearer the Republican Party needs in 2008. His message of conservative change will bring our Party and Washington back to our most basic conservative values of fiscal discipline, smaller government and lower taxes. Governor Romney has the record and experience to bring true change to Washington."
After joining Romney for President on Monday, Senator Gregg said, "Governor Romney has the experience, vision and values to lead our country forward. In the toughest places, he has made the toughest decisions. He has a clear conservative vision for a stronger America. As a Co-Chair of his national campaign, I look forward to working with Governor Romney as this election heads into the next critical months."
  