
    Pool Reports by Christian Datoc, Washington Examiner 



Sent:
Reports:




October 6, 202115:34

VP pool report #1 — Gathering for Divine 9 meeting 
Good afternoon on an overcast Wednesday at the White House.
Vice President Kamala Harris is scheduled to host a meeting in her ceremonial EEOB office with the National Pan-Hellenic Council, a group of traditionally African American fraternities and sororities also known as the "Divine 9."
Passing along a participant list from VP's office. Feel free to ping me directly with any questions.
Valerie Hollingsworth Baker, International President, Zeta Phi BetaDr. Glenda Glover, International President, Alpha Kappa AlphaRasheeda S. Liberty, Vice Chair of Council of Presidents and International Grand Basileus, Sigma Gamma RhoDr. Willis Lonzer III, General President, Alpha Phi AlphaAndre R. Manson, Immediate Past President, International Grand Polaris, Iota Phi ThetaDr. David Marion, Immediate Past Chair of the Council of President and Grand Basileus, Omega Psi PhiChristopher Rey, Newly Elected President, Phi Beta SigmaAttorney Reuben Shelton, Chair of the Council of Presidents and Grand Polemarch, Kappa Alpha PsiBeverly E. Smith, National President & CEO, Delta Sigma Theta



October 6, 202115:36

VP pool report #2 — in EEOB 
Holding in a side office as of 2:15pm… meeting still on schedule for 2:30pm. More to follow--



October 6, 202115:37

VP pool report #3 — meeting underway 
Divine 9 requested this meeting with VP, per co-pooler April Ryan, in hopes of discussing jobs, COVID, and voting rights.
Pool entered the room at 2:35pm, right after hearing brief cheers and applause for what was likely VP’s entrance. VP was seated at the head of the table with participants fanned out around her… the usual setup. Highlights and quotes to follow.



October 6, 202115:38

VP pool report #4 — Highlights 
Cedric Richmond, director of the office of public engagement and intergovernmental affairs, also joined the meeting, which concluded at 2:41pm
One note. VP didn't answer shouted questions from pool about WH's commitment to voting rights and the Black agenda or her message to Mitch McConnell on the filibuster/debt ceiling debate.
The room:https://twitter.com/tocradio/status/1445822897126133765?s=21
Highlights:"For the president and for me, it is very important that we collaborate" with education and Hellenic leaders
There are opportunities for engagement and improvement…
VP notes that leaders of the Divine 9 have historically been some of the most important leaders on voting rights… they are the leaders of private sector and industry and innovation
In working to Build Back Better, the admin is looking to address HBCUs and what the WH can do to support those students and graduates
I'm looking forward to the conversation we're looking to have to continue to lift people up
VP called for the immediate passage of two voting rights bills
Said meeting participants challenged the nation to live up to our ideals
Full quotes to follow



October 6, 202115:40

VP pool report #5 — full quotes 
**** one note from me. The second question shouted by pool reporters was about VP's message to Sen. Manchin, not Sen. McConnell,
VP's full remarks below. That's all from me, y'all. Enjoy the rest of your hump day.
Otter: https://otter.ai/u/kmCqGoeaKEQ7-9CHJo-KWl0FjKY
VP: Well, it's my great honor to welcome, to officially welcome at my invitation my Divine 9 family and these great national and international leaders. We have so much to discuss and I'm looking forward to that conversation. But this invitation has been made, was made, even before our arrival at the White House, understanding the historic, the current and the future roles that members of each of these Divine 9 organizations play in every sector of our society, and in every way both historically, currently and in the future.
And for the President and for me, it is very important that we collaborate [inaudible], knowing that we face so many challenges, every country, knowing that we are entering in many ways a new era, when those challenges are taking on race, but also in the midst of those challenges we see opportunities not only important [inaudible].
And so I've asked these Divine 9 leaders to come in to share with me about the work that we are doing and the work continue to do, to uplift and to reach out to all the people in our nation to understand and to both engage and to acknowledge and to improve. So, I thank you all, and those who do not know, it is leaders, historically and currently, the Divine 9 who have been national leaders on issues like voting rights.
You know I've been reminded of recently of a photograph in black and white — I believe it was with President Truman — but a group of Black sororities who met in the White House [inaudible] talking about the need to protect voting rights for women of America. The leaders of the fraternities of the Divine 9 who had a vision for what the Civil Rights movement should be, and then led that movement, I think about the leaders of industry, the leaders of our [inaudible] sector, the leaders of innovation, and all of them are represented [inaudible].
And as we move forward we are also, as an administration, working to build back better. We've had some legislation that we are proposing and working on that would invest in a number of sectors of society, that will produce great growth. One of them is our HBCU's. And of course we have great presidents at each of the Divine 9 organizations at our HBCU's, as well as many other academic institutions, and so we're going to talk a bit about that and what we can do to work together to support our agencies, student and graduate. There is a challenge right now in our nation, as we know, from those who would attack voting rights.
As the great Corretta Scott King reminded us, the fight for civil rights must be fought by each and every generation and when that fight [inaudible], and it begins with those Divine 9 leaders, who have been the leaders in that fight and that that struggle. We know that will be front and center for us [inaudible]. And so I'm looking forward to the conversation that we will have about our continuing role to organize and help folks fight for their Constitutional rights. And then in short on that piece what we can do together is to push for the advancement and passage of the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Act. And finally again I want to welcome each one of you and thank you for the work that you do, for the work that you have begun, and at this table are representatives of organizations that have formed and shaped who we are as a nation that have challenged us to live up to our ideals.
Pool question 1: Madame President, what is your promise to the Black agenda when it comes to voting rights?
Pool question 2: What's your message to Senator Manchin [inaudible]...
(pool ushered out)




  