
    Mr. Prime Minister and distinguished guests:
We are honored today with the presence of a very. distinguished statesman.
His Excellency and I last met about a year ago in New York. We had a very profitable conversation then, as we have had again today. In the months between our two meetings, much has happened in the world-not least of which were the national elections held in Laos last January.
The fact that the people of your brave land were able and determined to hold free elections, while deeply engaged in defending themselves against armed violence, Your Highness, was a very inspiring demonstration of their resolve to control their own destiny.
Many of us here in the United States were equally moved by your eloquent remarks last week to the United Nations, particularly where you pointed out that "for more than 20 years (the Laotian people) have been the victim of subversions, violations, armed aggression."
In reading those remarks, I was moved by the thought of how really similar are the desires of all people. We all want enough to eat, enough to wear, opportunity for our children, and the opportunity to work in peace and freedom.
The great tragedy of the first two-thirds of our century is that though we have the power and the resources to realize all of these dreams, the violence and the bloodshed have continued. But I am not--any more than you, Your Highness--a pessimist. I believe that the time will come--and sooner perhaps than many believe--when men will turn from the works of violence and take up the ways of peace.
We are looking forward to our visits during the day and again tomorrow morning. I shall ask the Vice President and some other friends to come in. We will have a little informal lunch tomorrow together.
But let me assure you again, Your Highness, that we in America know our responsibilities to the great republic of mankind, and we certainly intend to be faithful to that trust.
I should like those of you with us to join me in a toast to His Majesty, the King of Laos.
  