
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced Texas Railroad Commission Chairman Michael Williams has endorsed Mayor Giuliani for President. He will serve as the campaign's Texas State Vice-Chair.
Williams, first appointed to the Texas Railroad Commission by former Governor George W. Bush to fill a vacant seat, is currently serving a full six-year term after being reelected statewide in 2002. Williams previously served in the administrations of Presidents Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush.
"I support Mayor Giuliani because he has a record of leadership on issues of concern to pro-family conservatives like me. As Mayor of New York City, he cleaned up Times Square and encouraged adoption, while the number of abortions fell dramatically. I know Rudy will appoint strict constructionist justices to the Supreme Court in the mold of Scalia, Roberts, Alito and Thomas," said Williams. "I am proud to support Mayor Giuliani because he is the strongest candidate who can beat the Democrats and win the White House."
"We are glad Chairman Williams is joining our Texas team," said Michael DuHaime, Giuliani's National Campaign Manager. "He is a committed public servant who shares the Mayor's commitment to safe communities and protecting our children."
Williams joins a strong Texas leadership team supporting the Mayor, including Texas Governor Rick Perry, U.S. Representative Pete Sessions and Texas Comptroller of Public Accounts Susan Combs.
About Michael Williams:
Williams, the first African American in Texas history to hold an executive statewide elected post, was first appointed to the Texas Railroad Commission in 1998 to fill a vacant seat and was elected to complete the term in 2000. He is currently serving a six-year term after being successfully reelected in 2002.
Williams chairs the Governor's Clean Coal Technology Council and serves on the Southern States Energy Board. Governor Perry appointed Williams as his designee to lead the state's long-term Hurricane Katrina relief efforts.
Prior to his appointment to the Commission, Williams served as general counsel to a Texas-based high-tech corporation and is a former attorney at Haynes and Boone, L.L.P. He also served as the General Counsel of the Republican Party of Texas, the Chairman of the Texas Juvenile Probation Commission and on the Board of Directors of the Arlington Chamber of Commerce.
Williams was Assistant Secretary of Education for Civil Rights at the U.S. Department of Education and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Law Enforcement at the U.S. Department of the Treasury under President George H. W. Bush. He served as Special Assistant to Attorney General Richard Thornburgh in President Ronald Reagan's Justice Department.
Williams, the son of public school teachers, holds a bachelor, master's and law degree from the University of Southern California.
  