
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Sen. Klobuchar, D-MN, Sen. Kaine, D-VA, Sen. King, I-ME, Sen. Manchin, D-WV, Sen. Merkley, D-OR, Sen. Padilla, D-CA, Sen. Tester, D-MT, and Sen. Warnock, D-GA)
The Administration strongly supports Senate passage of S. 2747, the Freedom to Vote Act.
Democracy is in peril, here, in America. The right to vote - a sacred right in this country - is under assault. Since the violent aftermath of the 2020 election, when an armed mob of insurrectionists sought to overturn the voice of the people and a duly certified election, the assault on our democracy has only intensified. In state after state, restrictive laws on voting, and efforts to replace non-partisan election administration with partisan processes designed to overturn the will of the voters, have become more widespread. This landmark legislation is needed to protect the right to vote, ensure the integrity of our elections, and repair and strengthen American democracy.
The Freedom to Vote Act would set common-sense national baselines for voting in Federal elections. It would reform redistricting to curtail the partisan gerrymandering that distorts our democracy. It would modernize our election systems, protect election workers, and make the process more secure against efforts to undermine the will of the people. Consistent with the Administration's commitment to racial equity, the bill would also expand the tools available to the Justice Department to protect the right of all Americans to vote. It would reform our campaign finance system, adding more transparency and protections against foreign interference. Each of these provisions would also help restore confidence in our government and in democratic institutions.
The Administration applauds the Senate sponsors' preparation of a bill that reflects feedback from state and local election officials and enjoys a broad base of bipartisan support from the American people. As the bill moves forward, the Administration will continue to work with Congress to ensure that it achieves lasting reform consistent with Congress' broad constitutional authority to strengthen our democracy.
  