
    "Lieberman Touts McCain's Bipartisan Record, Says He's Change Agent"
By Kevin Landrigan
Nashua Telegraph October 28, 2008
CONCORD Connecticut Sen. Joe Lieberman said independents should prefer Republican Sen. John McCain for his proven record of working with both parties to bring about meaningful change in Washington.
McCain has credibility on brokering compromise because he's done it in the Senate on climate change, campaign finance reform and preventing individual senators from blocking votes on judicial nominations, said Lieberman.
"I personally appeal to independents in New Hampshire to understand that he is the genuine independent in this race for president and the real candidate who has been the change agent,'' said Lieberman, who was re-elected as an independent in 2006.
As for Democratic rival Sen. Barack Obama, Lieberman said he's not seen any evidence during four years in office of the Democratic nominee disagreeing with the leadership in his own party. ...
The McCain campaign scheduled a conference call Monday on the eve of New York Sen. Hillary Clinton's return to the state on behalf of Obama and Democratic Senate candidate Jeanne Shaheen. ...
"We are looking forward to a come-from-behind victory in New Hampshire,'' Lieberman said. ...
Lieberman campaigned in the state two days last week and spent a lot of time stumping for McCain in the runup to McCain's presidential primary victory last January.
McCain had considered Lieberman as a running mate, the position that Democratic presidential nominee Al Gore gave Lieberman in 2000. Lieberman said he still is a Democrat but said the party's leadership has veered too far off centrist politics since that election.
"On the economy, trade, national security and government reform, the Democratic Party is not what it was eight years ago,'' Lieberman said.
As for what issue will make a difference in the final week, Lieberman said it's that enough voters will conclude that while a skillful campaigner, Obama lacks the readiness for the job.
"A day may come when I would be supporting Senator Obama for president but not in this race,'' Lieberman added.
ReadThe Entire Article
  