
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Ohio State Senator Bob Schuler from the 7th Senate District announced his endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney. State Senator Schuler joins previously announced State Senator Kevin Coughlin and State Representative Shannon Jones.
"Senator Schuler understands the need for Republicans to act like Republicans and bring conservative change to the state capitol of Ohio and to our nation's capitol," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to working with Senator Schuler in Ohio. We need to control government spending, keep taxes low, reform health care, keep our nation safe, and promote strong families."
"Governor Romney often talks about his vision for building a stronger America with a stronger military, stronger economy, and stronger families," said State Senator Schuler. "Throughout his career he has faced extraordinary challenges and has always met them. He's turned around companies, the 2002 Winter Olympics, and the state he governed for four years. His proven leadership will allow him to bring conservative leadership to Washington."
Background On Ohio State Senator Bob Schuler:
State Senator Bob Schuler Has Served The 7th Senate District Of Ohio Since 2003. He is currently the chair of the Energy and Public Utilities Committee, and has served as a member on a number of additional committees. He has been the Executive Committee Chairman for the Planning Partnership, a board member for the Glad House, sits on the Scarlet Oaks School's Business Advisory Council, is the host of Issues Forum TV Show and is a volunteer for both Tall Stacks and Habitat for Humanity.
He began his political career as a member of the Deer Park City Council from 1974-1985. From 1988-1992, Schuler served as a Sycamore Township Trustee. He then served in the Ohio State House of Representatives from 1993-2000. State Senator Schuler has been a member of various committees in Hamilton County, and has won many awards for his public service to the people of Ohio.
  