
    EVER SINCE Benjamin Franklin, at the age of 70, served on the committee which drafted the Declaration of Independence, older Americans have played a vitally important role in the life of this Nation.
Since Franklin's time the United States of America has grown in size and complexity. With that growth have come new challenges and new opportunities for the older citizens of this country. They have met these challenges and seized these opportunities with great determination and energy. At the same time, the entire Nation and its government have increasingly recognized their responsibility for helping older Americans to play active and constructive roles in our society.
This administration is fully committed to carrying out that responsibility. It was in keeping with this commitment that I recently asked the Congress to raise social security benefits by 10 percent and to provide for automatic increases thereafter, so that payments will always keep pace with the cost of living. These measures, and other improvements which I have proposed for the social security system, will protect older Americans--so many of whom live on fixed incomes-against one of their worst enemies, the rising cost of living caused by inflation. My specific recommendations give maximum protection without further aggravating inflationary pressures. I earnestly hope that Congress will give these proposals its prompt consideration and approval.
Social security improvements are an important first step in our program for the older generation. But there are also other areas in which we must move forward. We must fully explore and carefully consider a variety of suggestions for helping the more than 19 million Americans who are now 65 and over--and the many millions more who will soon be in that category-to live healthier and more productive lives. We must find better ways for our society to tap their wisdom and talent and experience.
Much of the progress which has been made can be traced back to the last White House Conference on Aging which was called by President Eisenhower and held nearly a decade ago. Remembering that landmark conference and the valuable findings which it produced, the Congress last year authorized a new White House Conference on Aging. I enthusiastically supported such a conference in my campaign a year ago.
Today I am issuing a formal call for the second White House Conference on Aging to meet in Washington, D.C., in November in 1971. With careful advance planning and with broad, representative participation, this Conference can help develop a more adequate national policy for older Americans. I hope that it will fully consider the many factors which have a special influence on the lives of the aging and that it will address precise recommendations, not only to the Federal Government, but also to government at other levels and to the private and voluntary sectors as well. The Conference will be directed by John B. Martin, Commissioner on Aging and Special Assistant to the President on Aging.
Members of the older generation have given much to their country. Through the White House Conference on Aging, a grateful nation can recognize these contributions. More than that, the Conference can move this Nation toward the goal of making old age a time of contribution and satisfaction.
  