
    An ever-growing maze of regulations, rules, restrictions has cost our country trillions and trillions of dollars, millions of jobs, countless American factories, and devastated many industries.President Donald J. Trump
ENDING OVERREGULATION: President Donald J. Trump is delivering on his promise to get rid of unnecessary, outdated, and duplicative regulations.

The Trump Administration is releasing findings that show the President's regulatory reform efforts saved American families and business owners $23 billion in fiscal year (FY) 2018.

This progress builds on the Administration's significant regulatory reforms in FY 2017.


President Trump's historic regulatory reform is a complete change in direction, with Americans actually seeing an overall decrease in regulatory burdens.
The Administration issued 176 deregulatory actions last year, eliminating 12 regulations for every new one according to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs.

The President has again exceeded his pledge to cut two regulations across the year for every new one.


Since taking office, President Trump's efforts have achieved $33 billion in regulatory savings.

In a stark contrast, President Obama imposed $245 billion in burdensome regulatory costs on the American people in his first 21 months in office.


Businesses are finally being freed of Washington's overreach and the American economy is flourishing as a result.

REAL RESULTS: President Trump's efforts to cut burdensome and unnecessary red tape are bringing real change and delivering real results for Americans. 

The Department of Labor made it easier for small businesses to provide better health insurance to their employees through association health plans.
The Department of Veterans Affairs greatly expanded veterans' ability to use telehealth services, giving them access to state-of-the-art healthcare everywhere.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has taken action to free our fishermen from burdensome red tape while also promoting responsible fishing practices.

For instance, areas off the coast of New England have been opened to commercial sea scallop harvesting for the first time in years, netting an economic benefit of $654 million.


The Department of Health and Human Services reduced paperwork for nursing facilities, inpatient hospitals, and home health providers, saving $8.2 billion in regulatory costs.

DEREGULATION WILL CONTINUE: The Trump Administration will continue its bold reforms to roll back burdensome red tape in FY 2019.

President Trump's regulatory reform efforts are accelerating, and we will continue to take a responsible approach to addressing overly burdensome regulations in FY 2019.
The Department of Transportation and Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) have proposed amendments to existing Corporate Average Fuel Economy standards.

These amendments could save up to $340 billion over the lifetime of new vehicles.


The EPA and Army Corps of Engineers have proposed new rulemakings that would reassess the Obama Administration's burdensome "Waters of the United States" rule.
The EPA has proposed the Affordable Clean Energy rule, which would replace the 2015 Clean Power Plan (CPP).

In some scenarios, avoided compliances costs total $6.4 billion compared to the CPP.



  