
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

When German settlers landed in America near Philadelphia on October 6, 1683, they established the first of the many ties that exist between the United States and Germany. Since then, generations of German immigrants and their descendants have made outstanding contributions to American history and culture. However, the ties that we celebrate today are not only those born of kinship but also those based on common values and aspirations. Indeed, the same love of liberty that led the first German immigrants to these shores continues to animate U.S.-German relations.
For more than 40 years following World War II, the United States stood together with its friends in the Federal Republic of Germany to help guarantee that nation's freedom and security and to advance our common interests. Yet we also shared the hope that all Germans would one day enjoy the blessings of liberty in a united, democratic, and sovereign Germany. The dramatic opening of the Berlin Wall in November 1989 and the official unification of Germany less than one year later marked the achievement of that goal. Today the United States looks forward to continuing the friendship that our two peoples have so long enjoyed. Active trade and close political cooperation within the context of the Atlantic Alliance are among the most important dimensions of this relationship. However, we also value our various "people-to-people" contacts and exchanges. Accordingly, to promote the exchange of information and ideas with the five new Federal States of Germany -- which for too long had been isolated by the ruling communist regime -- we have joined with the German government in establishing the RIAS Foundation. In addition to facilitating cooperative radio and television productions, the Foundation will offer training and other programs for students, broadcast journalists, and other media professionals. This year the United States also opened a new Consulate General in the city of Leipzig, further strengthening the ties between our two peoples.
The new, united Germany that stands in friendship with the United States also stands as our partner in leadership. After Iraqi forces launched their brutal invasion of Kuwait on August 2, 1990, Germany joined in the international coalition that condemned the aggression and resolved to uphold the rule of law. Moreover, today's Germany not only symbolizes a new Europe, a Europe whole and free, but also is helping to lead the effort to achieve this goal. Along with the United States and other Western nations, Germany is offering valuable support to the emerging democracies of Central and Eastern Europe through investment, training programs, and technical assistance.
In keeping with its enhanced stature as a force for peace and stability in global affairs, Germany will host the next summit of the world's seven leading industrialized nations. The United States looks forward to this meeting in Munich in July 1992, and we welcome the many opportunities that lie ahead in U.S.-German relations.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution, 151, has designated October 6, 1991, and October 6, 1992, as "German-American Day"and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of these occasions.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 6, 1991, and October 6, 1992, as German-American Day. I call upon the people of the United States to observe these occasions with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 3rd day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  