
    
The number of American lives lost to gun violence is more than three times the rate as the next developed country. We need to act.
33,636.
That's the number of Americans who died from gun violence in a single year. No other developed country loses as many people to gun violence each year as we do.
In fact, it's not even close.

The number of American lives lost to gun violence is more than three times the rate as the next country on the list. If that's shocking to you, it should be. But we need to do more than be shocked. We need to act.
Here's how Hillary will take on the epidemic of gun violence—with or without Congress's help.
Strengthen background checks
First things first: Hillary will start with what we know works. The background checks implemented by the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act in 1993 have reduced gun trafficking, saved lives in domestic violence situations, and prevented dangerous individuals from getting their hands on guns.

The bottom line: Background checks work. But an estimated 20 to 40 percent of all gun transactions in the U.S. still happen with no background check at all. And that's largely because of loopholes in the current system.
Background checks are frequently not required if a person buys a gun online or at a gun show. And even when background checks do take place, there are dangerous loopholes: For example, because of the "Charleston Loophole," if the background check is not completed within three days, the potential buyer is allowed to purchase the gun anyway. That's how the alleged shooter in Charleston, South Carolina, was able to buy a gun even with a federal criminal record.
Comprehensive background check legislation could save thousands of lives. And if Congress refuses to act, Hillary will take executive action to tighten the gun show and online sales loopholes.


Hold dealers and manufacturers accountable
The vast majority of gun dealers and manufacturers sell guns safely and responsibly.
But the few who don't follow the law are a real problem. In fact, they're flooding our communities with illegal guns. And too many Americans are dying as a direct result of our failure to hold these bad actors accountable. Gun violence is now the leading cause of death for young black men.

This deadly problem is made worse because gun manufacturers and dealers have some powerful friends. The NRA and their Republican allies have helped grant them unique legal protection—which means that in some cases, victims of gun violence can't hold them accountable for violence caused by their products. And the NRA has gone out of their way to ensure the people responsible for regulating gun dealers can't do their jobs.


Keep guns out of the hands of violent criminals and the severely mentally ill
It's common sense: No dangerous individual should be able to obtain a gun. That includes domestic abusers. But even though federal law prohibits abusive spouses from purchasing or possessing guns, this protection does not apply to people in dating relationships or convicted stalkers.
And as a result, American women are at a significantly greater risk of losing their lives to gun violence than women in any other high-income country.


Hillary's plan
With one group estimating more than 10,000 already killed by gun violence this year alone, it's time to demand more than thoughts and prayers from our elected officials. That's why Hillary's plan lays out concrete steps to make sure guns don't fall into the wrong hands while respecting the rights of responsible gun owners.
Putting this plan into action won't be easy, especially if Congress refuses to act. But Hillary believes some fights are too important to give up on—and this is one of them.
  