
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      James Q. Crowe, Chairman, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      Maggie Wilderotter, Vice Chair, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      Donna A. James, Chairperson, National Women's Business Council
President Obama said, "These dedicated individuals bring a wealth of experience and talent to their new roles and I am proud to have them serve in this administration. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:
James Q. Crowe, Appointee for Chairman, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory CommitteeJames Crowe is Chief Executive Officer of Level 3 Communications, an international communications company. Mr. Crowe has 25 years of experience in leading companies in various portions of the telecommunications industry. Prior to assuming leadership of Level 3, Mr. Crowe served as Chairman of WorldCom, following that company's merger with MFS Communications Company in 1996. Prior to that, Mr. Crowe was CEO of MFS, a company he founded and took public in 1993. At the time of its merger with WorldCom, MFS was the largest competitive local carrier in the U.S. and Europe. Mr. Crowe serves on the Board of Directors of Level 3 Communications. He holds a B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and an MBA from Pepperdine University.
Maggie Wilderotter, Appointee for Vice Chair, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Maggie Wilderotter is Chairman and CEO of Frontier Communications, a leading provider of communications services to rural America. Prior to this, she was Senior Vice President of Worldwide Public Sector at Microsoft, Executive Vice President of National Operations for AT&T Wireless Services Inc., and Chief Executive Officer of AT&T's Aviation Communications Division. She also served as Senior Vice President of McCaw Cellular Communications Inc. and was a Regional President. Ms. Wilderotter serves on the boards of Procter & Gamble Co. and Xerox Corporation. She is a member of the Directorship 100, a list compiled by the National Association of Corporate Directors of those having a profound impact on corporate governance. In 2009 and 2010, Ms. Wilderotter was included on Fortune's list of the "50 Most Powerful Women in Business." Ms. Wilderotter holds a B.A. in economics and business administration from Holy Cross College.
Donna A. James, Appointee for Chairperson, National Women's Business Council
Donna James is the managing director of Lardon & Associates LLC., a business consulting practice where she provides advice and counsel to leaders of both large and small businesses. She serves as a director of Limited Brands, Coca Cola Enterprises, Time Warner Cable and CNO Financial. Prior to starting her own consulting business, Ms. James was president of Nationwide Strategic Investments where she led several subsidiary companies and a business development team in identifying, investing in, and commercializing new businesses opportunities. She also held the positions of Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Senior Vice President, Human Resources for Nationwide Insurance and Financial Services. Ms. James is the founder and chair of the Center for Healthy Families, a non-profit focused on transforming the lives of pregnant and parenting teens and their children. She also works with WATT - Women at the Table, a women's network focused on increasing the number of women on corporate boards. She has served as co-chair of the Women's Fund of Central Ohio, was elected to the Junior Achievement Business Hall of Fame and the National Historically Black Colleges Hall of Fame, and was named in 2005 by Black Enterprises Magazine as one of the top 75 African Americans in Corporate America.
  