
    Cyber threats can affect every American, every business regardless of size, and every community. That's why my administration is marshalling a whole-of-Nation effort to confront cyber threats.
I am committed to strengthening our cybersecurity by hardening our critical infrastructure against cyber attacks, disrupting ransomware networks, working to establish and promote clear rules of the road for all nations in cyberspace, and making clear we will hold accountable those that threaten our security. In May, I issued an Executive order to modernize our defenses and position the Federal Government to lead, rather than lag, in its own cybersecurity. By using the power of Federal technology spending, we are improving the software available for use to all Americans. Our 100-day action plan to improve cybersecurity across the electricity sector has already resulted in more than 150 utilities serving 90 million Americans committing to deploy cybersecurity technologies, and we are working to deploy action plans for additional critical infrastructure sectors. Both the public and private sectors have a role to play in strengthening cybersecurity, which is why we also issued a National Security Memorandum outlining the cybersecurity practices that responsible owners and operators of critical infrastructure should put in place and brought together leading American executives to expand public-private cooperation on cybersecurity.
We are also partnering closely with nations around the world on these shared threats, including our NATO allies and G-7 partners. This month, the United States will bring together 30 countries to accelerate our cooperation in combatting cybercrime, improving law enforcement collaboration, stemming the illicit use of cryptocurrency, and engaging on these issues diplomatically. We are building a coalition of nations to advocate for and invest in trusted 5G technology and to better secure our supply chains. And we are bringing the full strength of our capabilities to disrupt malicious cyber activity, including managing both the risks and opportunities of emerging technologies like quantum computing and artificial intelligence. The Federal Government needs the partnership of every American and every American company in these efforts. We must lock our digital doors—by encrypting our data and using multifactor authentication, for example—and we must build technology securely by design, enabling consumers to understand the risks in the technologies they buy. Because people—from those who build technology to those to deploy technology—are at the heart of our success.
This October, even as we recognize how much work remains to be done and that maintaining strong cybersecurity practices is ongoing work, I am confident that the advancements we have put in place during the first months of my administration will enable us to build back better, modernizing our defenses and securing the technology on which our enduring prosperity and our security rely.
  