
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: New Hampshire Press Shop (603) 836-0141
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Tom Thomson has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Mr. Thomson is a widely respected small business owner, anti-tax advocate, and son of the late New Hampshire Governor Mel Thomson Jr., who's "Ax the Tax" platform inspired future state and national candidates to take a pledge against raising taxes.
"I'm pleased to have the endorsement of this great businessman, tax opponent, and New Hampshire favorite son Tom Thomson. I look forward to working with him to reach out to fiscal conservatives and small business owners throughout the Granite State," said Governor Romney.
With his endorsement today, Tom Thomson issued the following statement:
"After much thought and consideration I have decided to endorse the Republican candidate I believe is best for the country and is best positioned to win in 2008. He was the first presidential candidate to sign Americans for Tax Reform's anti-tax pledge, and he has made tax relief a top priority. He also believes that our hard-working Americans should not be taxed to death, and that we should, once and for all, do away with the death tax.
"In addition, Governor Romney has a proven record of extraordinary business skills, which will help run the federal government efficiently for our taxpayers. He has fought for traditional family values, and he, his wife, and their family have led by example.
"Governor Romney is a man of faith and integrity. He also believes in a strong military and has unwavering support for our men and women who are protecting our freedom every day around the world.
"I am pleased to endorse Governor Mitt Romney as the Republican nominee for President of the United States. I would encourage all Republican and Independent voters to join me in supporting Governor Mitt Romney for President."
Background On Tom Thomson:
Thomson Is A Long Time And Vocal Opponent Of New Tax Proposals And Those That Increase Taxes. He has been an outspoken critic of the "view tax" – a tax that would unfairly and indiscriminately charge landowners for the view from their property. Tom Thomson and his family own and operate the 2,400 acre Thomson Family Tree Farm in Orford, New Hampshire.
Thomson served in the National Guard after high school. He and his wife Sheila reside in Orford, NH. They have one son.
  