
    "In our analysis, Republican candidate John McCain has a documented record of enlightened leadership in Washington -- leadership that often has run counter to the status quo and challenged the folly of senior members of his own party. McCain never has been a conventional politician. He thinks for himself and acts on what he believes to be in the best interests of the nation, and not necessarily in the interests of his party or his own political fortunes." --The San Diego Union-Tribune
"McCain brings a proven track record of fighting the bipartisan fiscal irresponsibility that prevails in Washington. He is a powerful opponent of wasteful earmarks, which the Arizona senator properly describes as a 'gateway drug' to corruption. There can be no doubt that he would wield the veto pen against the excesses of Congress, no matter which party sits in the majority. With deficit spending soaring, his dedication to responsible fiscal policy is desperately needed in the White House." --San Antonio Express-News 
"McCain For President"
Editorial
The San Diego Union-TribuneOctober 19, 2008
More than at any other time in a generation, Americans want change in the White House. The global financial upheaval and lingering wars in Iraq and Afghanistan have left most families weary and fearful, solidly convinced that the country needs to strike out in a new direction.
So, for voters on Nov. 4 the fundamental question is, which presidential candidate would provide the essential change that a strong and prosperous America demands in the turbulent years ahead?
In our analysis, Republican candidate John McCain has a documented record of enlightened leadership in Washington -- leadership that often has run counter to the status quo and challenged the folly of senior members of his own party. McCain never has been a conventional politician. He thinks for himself and acts on what he believes to be in the best interests of the nation, and not necessarily in the interests of his party or his own political fortunes. In an era of dismaying partisan paralysis in Washington, McCain has stood out as a bipartisan force, best illustrated by his collaboration with liberal Democratic lion Edward Kennedy on a comprehensive solution to America's immigration dilemma.
What's more, McCain's character has been thoroughly tested, from his POW confinement in Hanoi to decades of legislative battles on Capitol Hill. The same is not true of Democratic contender Barack Obama, who is intelligent, thoroughly versed on the issues and a truly gifted orator, but one of the least tested men ever to win his party's nomination.
Just as important, a careful examination of the candidates' policies leads us to the firm conclusion that Obama's call for higher taxes and greatly increased federal spending with a strong emphasis on government redistribution of wealth -- would be debilitating to an already threatened American economy. In contrast, McCain's drive to reduce the tax burden on both families and businesses, while slashing pork-barrel spending and promoting free trade, is exactly what is required to restore economic growth.
When the Great Depression struck in the early 1930s, Washington responded with misguided tax hikes and trade barriers that only exacerbated the crisis. Today, in the face of renewed economic turmoil of historic proportions, Obama proposes to boost the capital gains levy -- a particularly onerous tax on business expansion and job growth -- and increase the tax rate on dividends, which account for a big chunk of Americans' retirement earnings.
Obama touts his economic policies as providing tax cuts for 95 percent of Americans. In truth, he would achieve this only by refunding the Social Security taxes of the millions of Americans who don't make enough to pay income taxes, while imposing even higher rates on wage earners who already pay a disproportionate share of income taxes. Thus, Obama's "share the wealth" thrust would penalize the most productive, job-creating elements of society in order to reward the least productive. This is a political gambit, not sound economic policy. Which is why a joint statement from 100 leading economists, including five Nobel laureates, declares that Obama's plans "defy both economic reason and economic experience."
And what would McCain do? The GOP nominee proposes to make all of President Bush's tax cuts permanent. This includes maintaining the capital gains levy at the current rate of 15 percent. Meantime, he would chop the corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 25 percent, and broaden business tax deductions for equipment and new technology investments. Rather than be a drag on the economy, McCain's policies would stimulate job creation and growth, the key to healthy government revenues in the long run.
More than any other member of Congress, McCain has mounted a tough assault on earmarks and other wasteful government spending. As a deficit hawk, he would restrain (as President Bush deplorably has not) the voracious spending desires of a Senate and House firmly in Democratic hands. The exact opposite would be the case with Obama in the Oval Office. The candidate himself has called for hundreds of billions of dollars in new spending programs. Combined with a Democratic Congress, this suggests that today's horrendous deficits could only get uglier -- much, much uglier -- sapping private-sector expansion.
Lastly, Obama and McCain differ sharply on international trade, an issue that is critically important to San Diego. As the 100 influential economists note, rising exports have done far more this year to stimulate growth than the phony stimulus package passed by Congress. San Diego, perched on the U.S.-Mexico border and the Pacific Rim, relies increasingly on global trade. Yet Obama would constrain international commerce by "renegotiating" the most successful of all trade pacts, the North American Free Trade Agreement. He also opposes pending trade accords with Central America and Colombia. McCain, on the other hand, has supported every conceivable agreement to reduce the barriers to open international trade.
On Election Day, Americans historically have voted their pocketbooks. This innate common sense is more important than ever in stormy economic times. At this critical moment, America needs John McCain in the Oval Office.
ReadThe Editorial
"McCain Is The Best Choice For President"
Editorial
San Antonio Express-News October 19, 2008
The United States faces unprecedented economic, security and political challenges. The nation needs a leader with both the judgment and the experience to deal with these challenges.
That leader is John McCain.
McCain brings a proven track record of fighting the bipartisan fiscal irresponsibility that prevails in Washington.
He is a powerful opponent of wasteful earmarks, which the Arizona senator properly describes as a "gateway drug" to corruption. There can be no doubt that he would wield the veto pen against the excesses of Congress, no matter which party sits in the majority.
With deficit spending soaring, his dedication to responsible fiscal policy is desperately needed in the White House.
During his military career and 26 years in Congress, McCain has become an expert on foreign policy and security issues. From Latin America to the Caucasus to the Middle East and Asia, McCain has intimate knowledge of the issues and the personalities.
McCain's understanding of the world and the nation's security needs is a crucial asset in these tumultuous times.
And few leaders in U.S. history have had more first-hand knowledge of the toll war takes on military personnel and their families.
With public respect for political institutions residing at or near all-time lows, the American people need a president willing to transcend partisanship and do what is best for the nation.
Only McCain has a record of challenging his own party on key issues such as immigration and global warming.
On entitlement spending -- the next financial disaster looming on the horizon -- only one presidential candidate is willing to speak the unpopular truth. McCain frankly says that benefit promises to young workers cannot be kept within the current system.
McCain's willingness to tackle controversial issues and his record of working across the political aisle make credible his pledge to address the entitlement shortfall.
Barack Obama's historic candidacy cannot be underestimated. The Illinois senator has invigorated the 2008 election with new ideas and inspired millions of Americans to become involved -- or re-involved -- in the political process.
Obama is blessed with immense talent. However, his record of accomplishment on the same economic, security and political issues simply doesn't come close to those of McCain.
Four more years in the Senate will give him the opportunity to develop the experience and demonstrate a track record that matches his inspiring rhetoric.
Both candidates have made change the keyword of their campaigns.
The question comes down to this: Which candidate is best able to chart a new and secure course for a nation in perilous waters?
John McCain is not a perfect candidate. In this tumultuous season, however, he is the best choice for commander in chief.
ReadThe Editorial
  