
    WASHINGTON – Rep. Ilhan Omar announced on Wednesday that she is endorsing Sen. Bernie Sanders' bid for the White House.
"I have had the opportunity to work with Bernie Sanders up close on major policy initiatives," Rep. Omar said. "This summer, we introduced a bill to cancel all 1.6 trillion dollars in student debt—paid for with a small tax on Wall Street speculation. And this week, we announced another bold plan to provide school meals year-round to every student who wants one. I have seen the values that motivate him and his commitment to building a movement that represents marginalized communities across this country."
"Bernie is leading a working class movement to defeat Donald Trump that transcends generation, ethnicity and geography," Omar continued. "That is why he is fighting to cancel all student debt. That is why he is fighting to make all school meals universal. That is why he is fighting for a humane immigration policy that treats immigrants as human beings and not criminals. And it's why Bernie is fighting to end our forever wars and truly prioritize human rights in our foreign policy—no matter who violates them. And it's why I believe Bernie Sanders is the best candidate to take on Donald Trump in 2020."
"Ilhan is a leader of strength and courage," Sanders said. "She will not back down from a fight with billionaires and the world's most powerful corporations to transform our country so it works for all of us. I'm proud of what we've done in Congress, and together we will build a multiracial working class coalition to win the White House."
Rep. Omar and Sen. Sanders are co-leading several critical pieces of legislation in Congress. They proposed sweeping legislation yesterday to provide free breakfast, lunch and dinner to every student in America, regardless of income. The pair also introduced a landmark bill in June to cancel all student debt and make all public, four-year colleges and universities—as well as community colleges, trade schools and apprenticeship programs—tuition-free and debt-free for all.
  