
    Executive Summary
The Trump Administration is ready to work with Congress to achieve three immigration policy objectives to ensure safe and lawful admissions; defend the safety and security of our country; and protect American workers and taxpayers.
BORDER SECURITY: Build a southern border wall and close legal loopholes that enable illegal immigration and swell the court backlog.

Fund and complete construction of the southern border wall.
Authorize the Department of Homeland Security to raise and collect fees from visa services and border-crossings to fund border security and enforcement activities.
Ensure the safe and expeditious return of Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC) and family units. 
End abuse of our asylum system by tightening standards, imposing penalties for fraud, and ensuring detention while claims are verified.
Remove illegal border crossers quickly by hiring an additional 370 Immigration Judges and 1,000 ICE attorneys.
Discourage illegal re-entry by enhancing penalties and expanding categories of inadmissibility.
Improve expedited removal.
Increase northern border security.

INTERIOR ENFORCEMENT: Enforce our immigration laws and return visa overstays.

Protect innocent people in sanctuary cities.
Authorize and incentivize States and localities to help enforce Federal immigration laws.
Strengthen law enforcement by hiring 10,000 more ICE officers and 300 Federal prosecutors. 
End visa overstays by establishing reforms to ensure their swift removal. 
Stop catch-and-release by correcting judicial actions that prevent ICE from keeping dangerous aliens in custody pending removal and expanding the criteria for expedited removal. 
Prevent gang members from receiving immigration benefits. 
Protect U.S. workers by requiring E-Verify and strengthening laws to stop employment discrimination against U.S. workers. 
Improve visa security by expanding State Department’s authority to combat visa fraud, ensuring funding of the Visa Security Program, and expanding it to high-risk posts.

MERIT-BASED IMMIGRATION SYSTEM: Establish reforms that protect American workers and promote financial success.

End extended-family chain migration by limiting family-based green cards to include spouses and minor children. 
Establish a points-based system for green cards to protect U.S. workers and taxpayers.

  