
    To the Congress of the United States:
In my Environmental Message of August 2, 1979, I proposed legislation to add a number of rivers and trails to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers and National Trails Systems.
Enclosed are reports and draft legislation that would add the following three river segments to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System as federally administered components:
—Gunnison River, Colorado
—Encampment River, Colorado
—Priest River, Idaho
I am reaffirming my support for designation of a segment of the Illinois River in Oregon for which legislation was submitted to the Congress last year. I am also reaffirming my support for the following four river segments proposed in my last Environmental Message for inclusion in the System:
—Bruneau River, Idaho
—Dolores River, Colorado
—Upper Mississippi River, Minnesota
—Salmon River, Idaho
In addition, I am transmitting to you new study reports on eight rivers which have been found to qualify for inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System as State-administered components. Each of the States in which the rivers are located has expressed an interest in administering these rivers as components of the national system. The rivers are:—Pine Creek, Pennsylvania
—Buffalo River, Tennessee
—Youghiogheny River, Pennsylvania-Maryland
—Shepaug River, Connecticut
—Kettle River, Minnesota
—Lower Wisconsin River, Wisconsin
—Housatonic River, Connecticut
—Illinois River, Oklahoma
In my 1977 Environmental Message, I proposed 20 additional fiver segments for study as potential additions to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. Several of those rivers have already been designated. Except for rivers where subsequent development has affected the river's qualification for designation, I continue to support legislation authorizing the study of these rivers. Moreover, I am submitting legislation to add the North Umpqua River in Oregon to the list of those rivers to be studied.
In order to assist full congressional deliberation on the proposed Upper Mississippi Wild and Scenic River, I have directed the Secretary of the Interior to complete, with full public participation, a conceptual master plan for the river which will set forth the specific requirements for lands or interests in lands to protect the river corridor and provide public access, campgrounds and other recreational facilities. This is to be completed by April 1980.
My recent Environmental Message also contained a number of proposals relating to the National Trails System. The system is still in its fledgling stage and should be expanded to meet widespread public interest. With this objective in mind, I have directed the Federal land managing agencies to enlarge the National Recreation Trails System. In addition, I am transmitting the study report and legislation to designate the 513-mile Natchez Trace National Scenic Trail through Tennessee, Alabama and Mississippi. I am also resubmitting proposed legislation to establish the Potomac Heritage Trail through Pennsylvania, Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia and the District of Columbia. Furthermore, I am reaffirming my support for the enactment of legislation to create the North Country Trail from the State of New York to North Dakota. Legislation to create this 3,200-mile trail has already passed the House of Representatives in the form of H.R. 3757.
Finally, I am transmitting a report from the Secretary of the Interior recommending that a 13.6-mile segment of the Big Thompson River in Colorado not be added to the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. This river segment is located entirely within the Rocky Mountain National Park and is managed and protected by the National Park Service. Further, approximately 80% of this 13.6-mile river segment is in a wilderness proposal now before the Congress. Therefore, I believe that the protection afforded by the National Wild and Scenic Rivers Act is unnecessary.
I urge that the Congress promptly act on my recommendations in order to protect these rivers and trails for the recreational and aesthetic enjoyment of all Americans.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
October 2, 1979.
  