
    President George W. Bush today announced that he intends to nominate six individuals and appoint four individuals and that he has designated one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Robert A. DeHaan, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary (Transportation Policy) at the Department of Transportation. Mr. DeHaan currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary (Transportation Policy) at the Department of Transportation. Prior to this, he served as Special Counsel to the Deputy United States Trade Representative. Earlier in his career, he served as Counselor to the Assistant Secretary for Aviation and International Affairs at the Department of Transportation and as a Senior Associate with Zuckert, Scoutt and Rasenberger, LLP. Mr. DeHaan received his bachelor's degree and JD from the University of Illinois.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute:
Steven C. Hollon of Ohio, (State Court Administrator), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/10;
Joseph E. Lambert of Kentucky, (Chief Justice Conference Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/09;
Gayle A. Nachtigal of Oregon, (Chief Justice Conference Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/09;
Arthur G. Scotland of California, (Chief Justice Conference Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/10;
Gerald W. VandeWalle of North Dakota, (Chief Justice Conference Representative), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 09/17/09.
The President intends to appoint Abram Claude, Jr., of New York, to be a Member of the Committee for Purchase from People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled (Representing one conversant with problems incident to employment of the blind), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 12/21/09.
The President intends to appoint Marc Gordon, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Public Interest Declassification Board:
Herbert Briick of Virginia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 10/03/11;
Elizabeth Rindskopf Parker of California, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 10/03/10.
The President has designated William E. Reukauf, of Virginia, to be Acting Special Counsel, Office of Special Counsel.
  