
    Sunday, as reported by the Associated Press, a group of nearly 100 former federal prosecutors and high-ranking DOJ officials from both Democratic and Republican administrations, including former AG Eric Holder and former Deputy AG Larry Thompson, issued the following joint letter expressing serious concerns over FBI Director Comey's departure from long-standing department protocols:
As former federal prosecutors and high-ranking officials of the U.S. Department of Justice, we know that the impartiality and nonpartisanship of the United States justice system makes it exceptional throughout the world. To maintain fairness and neutrality, federal law enforcement officials must exercise discipline whenever they make public statements in connection with an ongoing investigation. Often, evidence uncovered during the course of an investigative inquiry is incomplete, misleading or even incorrect, and releasing such information before all of the facts are known and tested in a court of law can unfairly prejudice individuals and undermine the public's faith in the integrity of our legal process.
For this reason, Justice Department officials are instructed to refrain from commenting publicly on the existence, let alone the substance, of pending investigative matters, except in exceptional circumstances and with explicit approval from the Department of Justice officials responsible for ultimate supervision of the matter. They are also instructed to exercise heightened restraint near the time of a primary or general election because, as official guidance from the Department instructs, public comment on a pending investigative matter may affect the electoral process and create the appearance of political interference in the fair administration of justice.
It is out of our respect for such settled tenets of the United States Department of Justice that we are moved to express our concern with the recent letter issued by FBI Director James Comey to eight Congressional Committees. Many of us have worked with Director Comey; all of us respect him. But his unprecedented decision to publicly comment on evidence in what may be an ongoing inquiry just eleven days before a presidential election leaves us both astonished and perplexed. We cannot recall a prior instance where a senior Justice Department official—Republican or Democrat—has, on the eve of a major election, issued a public statement where the mere disclosure of information may impact the election's outcome, yet the official acknowledges the information to be examined may not be significant or new.
Director Comey's letter is inconsistent with prevailing Department policy, and it breaks with longstanding practices followed by officials of both parties during past elections. Moreover, setting aside whether Director Comey's original statements in July were warranted, by failing to responsibly supplement the public record with any substantive, explanatory information, his letter begs the question that further commentary was necessary. For example, the letter provides no details regarding the content, source or recipient of the material; whether the newly-discovered evidence contains any classified or confidential information; whether the information duplicates material previously reviewed by the FBI; or even "whether or not [the] material may be significant."
Perhaps most troubling to us is the precedent set by this departure from the Department's widely-respected, non-partisan traditions. The admonitions that warn officials against making public statements during election periods have helped to maintain the independence and integrity of both the Department's important work and public confidence in the hardworking men and women who conduct themselves in a nonpartisan manner.
We believe that adherence to longstanding Justice Department guidelines is the best practice when considering public statements on investigative matters. We do not question Director Comey's motives. However, the fact remains that the Director's disclosure has invited considerable, uninformed public speculation about the significance of newly-discovered material just days before a national election. For this reason, we believe the American people deserve all the facts, and fairness dictates releasing information that provides a full and complete picture regarding the material at issue.
Signatories:


Eric H. Holder, former Attorney General of the United States


Stuart M. Gerson, former Acting Attorney General of the United States, former Assistant Attorney General


Donald B. Ayer, former Deputy Attorney General of the United States


James M. Cole, former Deputy Attorney General of the United States


Jamie S. Gorelick, former Deputy Attorney General of the United States


Gary G. Grindler, former Acting Deputy Attorney General of the United States


Larry D. Thompson, former Deputy Attorney General of the United States


David W. Ogden, former Deputy Attorney General of the United States


Wayne A. Budd, former Associate Attorney General of the United States, former U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts


Tony West, former Associate Attorney General of the United States


Neal Kumar Katyal, former Acting Solicitor General of the United States


Lanny A. Breuer, former Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division


Christine A. Varney, former Assistant Attorney General, Antitrust Division




Lourdes Baird, former U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California


Paul Coggins, former U.S. Attorney for Northern District of Texas


Jenny Durkan, former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington


Melinda L. Haag, former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California


Timothy Heaphy, former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Virginia


Scott R. Lassar, former U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois


Michael D. McKay, former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington


Harry Litman, former U.S. Attorney for Western District of Pennsylvania


Neil H. MacBride, former U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia


Bill Nettles, former U.S. Attorney for the District of South Carolina


Timothy Q. Purdon, former U.S. Attorney for the District of North Dakota


Donald Stern, former U.S. Attorney for Massachusetts


Anne M. Tompkins, former U.S. Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina




Elkan Abramowitz, former Chief of the Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York


David B. Anders, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Jodi L. Avergun, former Section Chief, U.S. Department of Justice Criminal Division


Marion Bachrach, former Chief of General Crimes, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York


Richard Ben-Veniste, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, and former Assistant Watergate Prosecutor


Shay Bilchik, former Director, U.S. Department of Justice Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention


David M. Buckner, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida


Alex Busansky, former prosecutor, U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division


Helen V. Cantwell, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Sandra Cavazos, former Assistant US Attorney for the Northern District of California and the Eastern District of New York


Charles E. Clayman, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York


Joel M. Cohen, former Chief of the Business and Securities Fraud Division, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York


Leo P. Cunningham, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California


Bert Deixler, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California


Keir Dougall, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York


Ira M. Feinberg, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Cary M. Feldman, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia


Martin Flumenbaum, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Stuart L. Gasner, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Hawaii


Douglas F. Gansler, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, and former Attorney General of Maryland


Faith Gay, former Deputy Chief of the Special Prosecutions and Civil Rights Divisions, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York


Gerald Greenberg, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida


Fred Hafetz, former Chief of the Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York


John Heuston, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California


Michele Hirshman, former Chief of the General Crimes and Public Corruption Units, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York


Sydney Hoffmann, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia


June M. Jeffries, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia


Marcia Jensen, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of California


John Joseph, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania


Nancy Kestenbaum, former Chief of General Crimes, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York


David V. Kirby, former Chief of the Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Vermont


Barbara E. Kittay, former prosecutor, U.S. Department of Justice, Criminal Division, and former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia


David S. Krakoff, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia


Larry H. Krantz, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York


Miriam Krinsky, former Chief of General Crimes, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Central District of California


Laurie Levenson, former Assistant U.S. Attorney, Central District of California


Hon. Tim Lewis, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania, and former federal judge on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals


Lori Lightfoot, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois


Debra Long-Doyle, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia


Carl H. Loewenson, Jr., former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Jeffrey Marcus, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida


Richard Marmaro, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California


Douglass B. Maynard, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Seth Miles, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida


Amy Millard, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Curtis B. Miner, dormer Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Florida


Cynthia Monaco, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York


Martin Perschetz, Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Elliot R. Peters, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Karen A. Popp, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York


Jeff Rabkin, former Assistant U.S Attorney for the Eastern District of New York, and for the Northern District of California


Daniel L. Rashbaum, former Assistant U.S. Attorney Southern District of Florida


Alicia Strohl Resnicoff, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania


David H. Resnicoff, former Assistant U.S. Attorney, Eastern District of Pennsylvania


Lawrence Robbins, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York


Frank A. Rothermel, former U.S. Department of Justice Civil Fraud Prosecutor


Lee Rubin, former prosecutor, U.S. Department of Justice Civil Rights Division, and former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia


Betty Santangelo, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


John Savarese, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Richard L. Scheff, former Chief of the Corruption and Labor Divisions, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania


William Schwartz, former Deputy Chief of the Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York


John Siffert, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


David Sklansky, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Central District of California


Matthew E. Sloan, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia and the Central District of California


Judge Mike Snipes, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Texas


Stephen R. Spivack, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia


Jeremy H. Temkin, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Eric Tirschwell, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York


Michael Tremonte, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of New York


Amy Walsh, former Chief of the Business and Securities Fraud Division, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York


Richard D. Weinberg, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York


Peter Zeidenberg, former Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, and U.S. Department of Justice Public Integrity Section


Lawrence J. Zweifach, former Chief of the Criminal Division, U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York


  