
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 20
The President declared a major disaster for the State of California as a result of an earthquake occurring on October 15, which caused extensive property damage.
Following his visit to Boston, Mass., the President went to Camp David, Md.
October 22
The President returned to the White House from Camp David.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the windfall profits tax given for community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
October 23
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—members of the National Advisory Council on Economic Opportunity:
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont;
—members of the President's Advisory Committee for Women.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received the first sheet of Christmas Seals, which marked the start of the 1979 Christmas Seal Campaign. Participants in the ceremony included Charles Schulz, National Christmas Seal chairman and creator of "Peanuts," Gordon Beck, president of the American Lung Association, and Jenny Chesser, 10, of Austell, Ga., Lorna Garrison, 10, of Washington, D.C., and Brian Owens, 10, of Kingsport, Tenn., representing the winners of the State Christmas Seal poster contests.
The President announced the members of the U.S. delegation to the independence ceremonies in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, to be held October 26-29. They are:
SALLY ANGELA SHELTON, U.S. Ambassador to Barbados, Grenada, and the Commonwealth of Dominica and Minister to Saint Lucia;
ROBERT F. BOSSIE, a Manchester, N.H., attorney;
PATRICIA ANNE FRANK, a Florida State senator; and
PATRICK T. McGAHN, JR., an Atlantic City, N.J., attorney. The President announced the designation of Clark M. Clifford as Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Board on Ambassadorial Appointments. Clifford has been a member of this Board since last March. As Chairman, he replaces Reubin O'D. Askew, who has resigned from the Board.
October 24
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Cabinet;
—Mr. Moore;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale. The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation treaty given for community leaders from Kentucky, North Carolina, and West Virginia in the East Room at the White House.
The President has designated Zbigniew Brzezinski, the President's Assistant for National Security Affairs, to head the U.S. delegation to the 25th anniversary celebration of the Algerian revolution in Algiers on November 1. Dr. Brzezinski will be accompanied by Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs David D. Newsom. Other members of the delegation will be named at a later date.
October 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, R. Robert Russell, Director, and John N. Gentry, Counselor on Labor-Management Relations, Council on Wage and Price Stability, Stuart E. Eizenstat, Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and Landon Butler, Deputy Assistant to the President;
—members of the National Citizens' Coalition for the Windfall Profits Tax;
—Mr. Moore;
—Members of the House of Representatives to discuss hospital cost containment legislation.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report on Administration of the Radiation Control for Health and Safety Act of 1968.
October 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of editors and broadcasters from Minnesota (transcript will be printed next week).
The President participated in a briefing on the administration's programs and policies given for civic and community leaders from Washington State in the East Room at the White House.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 1978 annual report of the Federal Council on Aging.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David.
  