
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The Bible tells us that no greater love has a man than this: to lay down his life for a friend. Our Nation's military veterans are brave and selfless individuals who, when duty called, were willing to put themselves in harm's way to defend the lives and liberty of others. Each November 11, we pause with solemn pride and heartfelt gratitude to honor this special group of Americans. The sacrifices they have made for our sake -- are, indeed, for the sake of millions of freedom-loving men and women around the world -- can never be forgotten. Their abiding patriotism and enduring devotion to the ideals on which the United States is founded can never fail to inspire us.
This Nation's veterans have made their stand for freedom and democratic ideals from the Argonne Forest to the windswept Aleutian Islands, from the searing deserts of North Africa to the steep hills and dense jungles of Southeast Asia. Some have defended the cause of individual liberty and self-government in more recent conflicts and less remote places, such as Grenada and Panama. They have seen comrades-in-arms fall on the field of battle, giving "the last full measure of devotion" for our country and the vision of freedom and justice we hold dear. They, too, have suffered and sacrificed, carrying on the light of liberty with efforts that have been equally selfless and heroic.
It is fitting that we pause on the anniversary of "Armistice Day," a day of peace and celebration, to honor America's veterans and to express our gratitude for their courage and sacrifice. World War I, which ended with the signing of the Armistice on November 11, 1918, did not, as millions of people hoped, prove to be "The War to End All Wars." Nevertheless, we know that our world is safer, freer, and more peaceful today thanks to the vigilance and resolve of our Armed Forces. Indeed, our Nation's veterans have helped to bring peace and freedom to regions of the world that once suffered under the shadow of hostility and oppression. The triumph of democratic ideals in Eastern Europe and other parts of the world provides powerful evidence that their sacrifices were not made in vain.
Although the dramatic social and political changes we have witnessed around the world during the past year provide a resounding affirmation of the ideals our veterans have fought to uphold, current events in the Persian Gulf region underscore the need for continued strength and vigilance on the part of free nations. As veterans have so often reminded us, eternal vigilance is, indeed, the price of liberty. These great heroes who have left their own "footprints on the sands of time" know that preparedness deters aggression, and they understand the important task before those American service men and women now keeping watch along the sands and off the shores of Saudi Arabia.
On this Veterans Day, mindful of President Wilson's call to honor our Nation's war heroes with a 2-minute interval of silence at 11:00 a.m. on November 11, 1919, let us pause to remember and pray for all those men and women who have since served in the United States Armed Forces. Through special services, programs, and ceremonies held in their honor on this day, let us affirm that their singular contributions to our country are cherished and remembered. Let us also strive, each and every day of the year, to ensure that ours remains a land worth of the great love our veterans have shown for it.
In order that we may pay due tribute to those who have served in our Armed Forces, the Congress has provided (a)) that November 11 of each year shall be set aside as a legal public holiday to honor America's veterans.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Sunday, November 11, 1990, as Veterans Day. I urge all Americans to honor our veterans through appropriate public ceremonies and private prayers. I also call upon Federal, State, and local government officials to display the flag of the United States and to encourage and participate in patriotic activities in their communities. I invite civic and fraternal organizations, churches, schools, businesses, unions, and the media to support this national observance with suitable commemorative expressions and programs.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  