
    President and Mrs. Zedillo, members of the Mexican delegation, distinguished guests. On behalf of the American people, it is my honor to welcome you to the United States as our neighbors, our partners, and our friends.
I know I speak for all Americans when I send my condolences to the victims of yesterday's terrible earthquake in western Mexico and to their families. Our thoughts and prayers are with all the people of your nation as the relief effort gets underway.
Mr. President, the bonds between our nations have never been stronger or more important. Over the last decade, and with renewed vitality since you took office, Mexico has embarked upon a course of political and economic transformation. Openness and participation are the watchwords of the future as the people of your great nation take control of shaping their destiny.
Mexico's triumph in this epic endeavor will be America's triumph as well. A prosperous Mexico will be an even greater partner in trade, and this means more high-paying jobs for citizens in both our nations. A strong, democratic Mexico will be an even more effective partner in the struggle against drugs and crime and pollution.
President Zedillo, the American people are proud to support your efforts. We know we share a stake in your success. That is why, when Mexico fell into financial crisis, the United States answered with action, not only for the sake of the Mexican people but also for the sake of thousands of Americans whose jobs depend upon Mexico's well-being.
We saw the threat of economic dislocation all along our 2,000-mile border, and we recognized that trouble next door would spread to other markets all around the world. The United States, with bipartisan backing, assembled a package of international support to help lift the Mexican economy back on track. And you, President Zedillo, rose to your daunting challenge with courage and determination. You implemented hard measures to stabilize the economy, while holding to the road of reform. You knew that the costs of your action were high but the costs of inaction were far greater. You recognized your truly historic responsibilities, and you met them.
We overcame tough challenges by making tough decisions and by standing together and standing firm for the long-term best interests of both our nations. Mexico's early repayment of $700 million serves proof that our actions were proper and that they will be rewarded. The Mexican economy has turned the corner, and the markets have taken notice.
The North American Free Trade Agreement helped to speed the recovery of international confidence. Even during the financial crisis, Mexico kept its NAFTA commitments, lowering its tariffs on American products. Today, despite the economic downturn, our exports to Mexico exceed their pre-NAFTA levels. And as Mexico's economy regains its strength, not only will your people benefit but so, too, will tens of thousands of Americans whose well-being also advances when Mexico prospers.
Mr. President, the United States applauds your grace under pressure, your vision for your people, and your unflinching resolve. You have coupled far-reaching economic reform with unprecedented progress for democracy, throwing open the doors of political participation and welcoming every Mexican inside.
We salute the Mexican people for their extraordinary perseverance. They have borne tremendous hardship to build a stronger, more prosperous nation. We support your goal of an open, dynamic, and democratic Mexico, an inspiration for the region and the entire world.
President and Mrs. Zedillo, we're glad to have you with us again. Welcome to the White House. Welcome back to the United States.
  