
    Pool Reports by Laura Figueroa, Newsday



Sent:
Reports:




 October 21, 2020 11:34

 In Town Pool Report #1 - Alyssa Farrah Gaggle on Stimulus and Immigrant Children 
Good Foggy Morning to All,
In-town and out-of-town travel poolers have been tested.
Alyssa Farrah took two questions from reporters out by the driveway
Asked about reports that the parents of more than 500 immigrant children separated from their parents cannot be located :
"I'm not aware of this specific case...it's probably a question for Homeland Security but I'd be happy to look into it."
Asked about coronavirus relief package negotiations
"We are committed to getting a stimulus package. I think this is the best we felt about is it. ...we can see some movement in the next 48 hours.
"The president's position is we're willing to go up on the number for PPP loans and the direct payments. SOme of the issues still surround state and local and some of the other issues but we're at the table, conversations are happening. I think it's kind of the best place we've been in, so cautious optimism." 


 October 21, 2020 12:12

 In Town Pool Report 2 - Lunch Lid 
Lunch Lid until 1:30pm
Also apologies, I misspelled Alyssa Farah's last name in prior email.
Cheers, 


 October 21, 2020 13:35

 Pool Report 3 - Brian Morgenstern on Stimulus negotiations 
Deputy WH Spox Brian Morgenstern gaggled for a bit, mainly took questions on stimulus, will send more shortly
q: is it possible to get a deal before election?"it is possible.""we remain committed to getting something done as soon as possible""we remain ever hopeful" 


 October 21, 2020 13:52

 Pool Report 4 - More Morgenstern quotes on Stimulus, Giuliani & Separated immigrant families 
Stimulus
"The administration remains committed to helping small businesses, getting schools open, helping with unemployment insurance stimulus checks."
"If we're at a point where the administration and House Democrats have a bipartisan agreement. I think then we'll have further conversations with the Senate and try to move the ball there. So, I think, there, there is some hope today that we'll see further action over the next say 48 hours or so."
I wouldn't count us out. Certainly, with the President's popularity in the party with his strong relationships with members of the Senate, we'll just have to cross the bridge when we get there. I'm assuming we get
On Meadows meeting with Republicans: "The chief definitely wants to hear the perspectives of our members in the Senate, and share the latest thoughts from the President and the highest priorities for really helping the American people...."
Asked about Giuliani's cameo in Borat film
"I have not seen it. So, we'll have to get back to you on that."
Called Giuliani a "patriot" and "zealous representative" of the president.
Asked by pooler about reports that administration has lost track of more than 500 immigrant parents separated from their children under the administration's zero-tolerance policy
"The administration has done everything we can to bring these families together."
Claimed "many of them have declined to accept their children back. There may be a variety of reasons for that but it's, It's very sad."
"It's not for lack of effort on the administration's part." 


 October 21, 2020 15:22

 Pool Report 5- Meadows Gaggle on Stimulus? 
Meadows gaggled briefly after a TV appearance, all Stimulus related q's
"I'm still very hopeful and very optimistic that we're making progress, and yet you know our Senate Republicans are starting to get to a point where they believe that she is not negotiating in a fair and equitable manner," Meadows said referring to House Speaker Pelosi.
Asked how many Senate Republicans were on board, said he was a good whip count, but "it's too early to tell until you have a bill."
"It looks like the Democrats have once again defeated at least a foundation of $500 to $600 billion -- in defeating that, it's a real disappointment because at least we can agree upon both of the provisions that were put forth on the Senate floor today. And yet, because of politics. Democrats decided to say no, but we're gonna continue to stay engage over the next couple of days." 


 October 21, 2020 15:54

 In-Town Pool Report 6 - Kudlow/Nothing New 
? Kudlow stopped to gaggle briefly mainly to report: "I don't have anything new"
Asked if POTUS would reach out to Pelosi or Democrats, Kudlow said Secretary Mnuchin will "handle all of that."
Said "Perhaps" there will be "more news tomorrow." 


 October 21, 2020 17:08

 In-Town Pool Report 7- POTUS on debates/Departure 
?POTUS emerged from the residence at 5:01pm
He spoke briefly about the debate:
Asked about mics being muted:
"i think the mute is very unfair"
"i think that the anchor is a very biased person"
Asked if he had prepped for debate: "I do prep."
Asked if he asked AG Barr to investigate Biden, POTUS said "Thank you very much" and walked away.
He was joined by McEnany, Meadows, Scavino and Lyons.
M1 was wheels up at 5:06pm 


 October 21, 2020 17:24

 Pool Report 8 - Quick odds and ends from POTUS on debate 
?Adding to the brief quotes sent in Pool Report 7...
Before boarding Marine One POTUS noted that he was traveling to North Carolina.
"We're doing very well in the polls"
Besides calling the mute feature unfair he said it was "unfair" the debate wasn't focused entirely on foreign affairs.
Besides taking aim at tomorrow night's moderator, he also brought up her parents: "her parents are very biased, but that's my life. In the meantime, that's the White House behind me."
A small group of supporters waving mini American flags, most wearing masks, stood on the opposite side of pool. They cheered for the president and chanted USA when he came out of the residence. 


 October 21, 2020 22:39

 In Town Pool Report 9 — Arrival + Travel/Photo Lid 
??Marine One landed on the south lawn at 10:33pm.
POTUS entered residence at 10:36pm. Did not stop to answer shouted questions.
Travel photo lid called...and to all a good night. 




Pool Reports below by Sebastian Smith, Agence France-Presse



Sent:
Reports:




 October 21, 2020 17:24

 Out of town travel pool report #1 
Marine One landed at a sunny JB Andrews at 5:14 pm. POTUS disembarked at 5:18 pm, wearing his long dark overcoat and red tie. He was followed by Mark Meadows, Kayleigh McKenany and Dan Scavino.
Other than Secret Service agents, the close entourage and Trump himself were not wearing masks.
The president boarded AF1 (the big one today) without stopping to take questions from pool under the wing. We are wheels up shortly for a flight of about 1:15 hours to Charlotte, NC, then motorcading to Gastonia for a reelection rally. 


 October 21, 2020 18:33

 Out of town travel pool report #2 
?AF1 landed in Charlotte , NC, at 6:18 pm after a smooth flight featuring tacos but no visitors to pool's cabin.
POTUS came down the steps at 6:30 pm, with no stopping to talk to pool.
The president and immediate entourage, which also confirmed includes Alyssa Farah and Bill Stepien, are again without masks.
We are now motorcading to Gastonia, about 25 minutes away (at least at motorcade speed.)
Correction to report #1: @PressSec's typo-free name is of course McEnany. Apols. 


 October 21, 2020 18:36

 Out of town pool report #2b - greeters 
? The WH passes along this list of the welcoming committee for POTUS at Charlotte airport.
>From the WH –
The President is met by:
Col Joseph SteppBase Commander, North Carolina Air National Guard, Charlotte Douglas International Airport (CLT)
SMSgt Anne-Marie TrialSenior Master Sergeant, North Carolina Air National Guard, Charlotte Douglas International Airport (CLT)
A1C John CollinsAirman First Class, North Carolina Air National Guard, Charlotte Douglas International Airport (CLT) 


 October 21, 2020 19:26

 Out of town pool report #3 
POTUS Motorcade arrived at Gastonia Municipal Airport at 7:06 pm after a speedy ride along Interstate 85 under gold and silver sunset skies.
As soon as we pulled into Gastonia city, we encountered constant knots of Trump supporters along the side of the road, ranging from small children to large men with large trucks and ATVs. The frequency and size of these groups intensified the nearer we got to the airport. Even among the bigger crowds there were almost zero masks. In what is, electorally speaking, serious Trump country, there were also next to no Biden supporters. A single family giving the thumbs down was spotted. Also a lonely couple with Biden signs standing in long grass, far from anyone else.
Pool did not see POTUS get out of the Beast on arrival at the small airport which has been decorated with giant US flags hanging from industrial cranes.
There is a crowd of several thousand packed tightly in around the stage, many in red MAGA hats but, again the vast majority without masks. Current warm up song is "we are the champions " by Queen.
POTUS is taking the stage at 7:11 pm. 


 October 21, 2020 20:17

 Out of town pool report #4 
POTUS has been talking for just over an hour so far. This is being live broadcast, but as a taste, here is a (not exclusive) list of moments triggering the biggest cheers/laughs/boos/chants from the highly responsive crowd:
1. List of enemies that Trump says he fights "all by myself." The litany includes the media, tech giants, "the really stupid dumb people -- the never Trumpers" and especially "the deep staters."
"There is such a thing as the deep staters," he says, prompting chants of "drain the swamp."
2. "The laptop from hell."
3. Adam Schiff and "Russia."
"Lock him up," the crowd chants after the president says about Rep. Schiff: "That guy should be locked up."
4. Complaints about the media, jokes about Joe Biden, and jokes about how he says his jokes (including the infamous call for Russia to "find" Hillary Clinton's emails) are not understood as jokes by the media.
5. "Women of the suburbs, please, please, love me!" This prompts extended chants from the crowd of: "We love you."
6. Complaints that the media and Democrats are overly obsessed with the coronavirus pandemic. "All you hear is covid, covid…. That's all they put on because they want to scare the hell out of everyone."
"They say cases are up. Yeah, testing is up."
7. "By the way our border is closed."
8. "Boom, boom, boom, they're getting a little nervous over there, the deep state, the Democrats, all of these people we've been dealing with."
"We're going to win this state. Thirteen days."
9. "You elected an outsider who is finally putting America first."
10. "Lock him up, lock him up" -- this time meaning Joe Biden.
"If Biden wins, China will own the United States," Trump says, urging voters to "send a messge to these liberal hypocrites by delivering Joe Biden a thundering defeat."
11. The president's claim that there were " tens of thousands of people in the roads" that couldn't get into the rally. (Your pooler saw decent crowds along the roadsides but nothing even remotely like that number.)
12. "If I don't sound like a typical Washington politician, it's because I'm not a politician."
13. "Some day they're going say, you know: he was a smart guy who ran a great country."
14. Shoutouts to Hannity, Limbaugh and Tucker Carlson. "We love Rush" people shout.
15. "I woke up the next morning and I felt like Superman." (about when he recovered from Covid-19 thanks to experimental drugs).
16. "There's more enthusiasm, there's more support" now than in 2016. 


 October 21, 2020 20:25

 Out of town pool report #5 
POTUS wrapping up and pool is hustling back out toward the motorcade. 


 October 21, 2020 20:43

 Out of town pool report #6 
?President Trump finished with his now customary jig to "YMCA" and motorcade is rolling for AF1 in Charlotte at 8:36 pm. 


 October 21, 2020 21:12

 Out of town travel pool report #7 
?Motorcade pulled up at AF1 at 9:10 pm. Pool not able to see POTUS boarding. Wheels up for JB Andrews briefly. 


 October 21, 2020 22:25

 Travel pool report #8 
?AF1 was wheels down at JB Andrews at 10:08 pm. No visitors to pool cabin.
President Trump came down the stairs at 10:19 pm. He boarded Marine One without stopping for questions and lifted off at 10:24 pm.
Handing over to the in-town pool, with thanks to co-pooler Catherine Lucey for assists. Good night. 



  