
    Today, the President participated in a video conference with his counterparts Prime Minister David Cameron of the United Kingdom, President François Hollande of France, Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany, and Prime Minister Matteo Renzi of Italy. The group discussed the international response to the Ebola epidemic in West Africa, including steps that are being taken to counter the spread of the disease. The President stressed the need for a faster and more robust international response to the Ebola epidemic, and underscored the need to increase assistance and international contributions for Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Guinea. The leaders agreed to work together to enlist greater support from more countries and to coordinate their efforts on the ground. President Obama made clear that the world must marshal the finances as well as the international personnel required to bend the curve of the epidemic, noting that it constitutes a human tragedy as well as a threat to international security.
On ISIL, the group reviewed coalition efforts to date in the campaign to degrade and ultimately destroy ISIL in Iraq and Syria, including stemming the flow of foreign fighters and building the capabilities of the Iraqi Security Forces and the moderate Syrian opposition. The President stressed that the military dimension of the campaign is just one aspect of the broader effort to counter ISIL. He noted the importance of countering ISIL propaganda, and our ongoing efforts to put forward an affirmative vision that contrasts with ISIL's violent and hateful ideology. The leaders also agreed that the coalition will continue to coordinate in order to counter sources of ISIL funding.
On Ukraine, the leaders discussed the need for Russia to fulfill all of its obligations under the Minsk agreements. Additionally, they discussed efforts to work alongside international financial institutions to support Ukraine's economy.
The President looks forward to continuing his conversations with his counterparts.
  