
    
Juli?n Castro, Hillary hair art, and a few palabras for the Republican Party.
Hillary wrapped up Hispanic Heritage Month with a celebraci?n? in San Antonio. The Lone Star ?estado? welcomed her with open arms.

The soundtrack for the event—Bidi Bidi Bom Bom, of course—set the stage for enthusiasmo from head to toe.

Three-time San Antonio mayor Juli?n Castro kicked off the event by endorsing Hillary.

As Juli?n said,??La diferencia de los Republicanos y Hillary es que ella respeta a la comunidad latina.?
?The difference between [Hillary] and the Republicans is that she respects the Latino community.?
Next up: La Hillary, who was greeted by enthusiastic gritos.

La Hillary's no stranger to Texas.
?I owe the people of South Texas a lot. ? When I came to San Antonio for the first time, I was 24 years old. There was a presidential race going on back then, and I was sent by the Democratic National Committee to register Texas voters. So I came down here for the summer with my boyfriend. ? And I've got to tell you, Bill and I fell in love with South Texas. We ate a lot of green enchiladas at Mi Tierra. We drank our share of Shiner Bocks. We ate way too much mango ice cream from the Menger Hotel. And we made lifelong friends and had so many unforgettable experiences.?
?Le debo mucho a la gente del sur de Texas. ? Cuando vine a San Antonio por primera vez, ten?a 24 a?os. El Comit? Nacional Dem?crata me pidi? que registrara a electores. Mi novio y yo pasamos todo el verano haciendo eso. ... Y les tengo que decir, que Bill y yo nos enamoramos del sur de Texas. Comimos muchas enchiladas en 'Mi Tierra.' Tomamos muchos 'Shiner Bocks.' Comimos demasiados helados del Hotel Menger. Pero tambi?n hicimos grandes amistades y compartimos experiencias inolvidables.?
It wasn't all a fiesta, though. The would-be abuela-in-chief had a few palabras for the Republican Party:
?The leading Republican candidate for president says that immigrants from Mexico are rapists and drug dealers ? I plan to continue calling out that kind of hateful speech whenever and wherever I see it. Because Latinos and Latinas, you're not strangers. You're not intruders. You're our neighbors, our friends, our families. And because you are our fellow Americans, you deserve to be treated with respect and dignity and to have an equal shot at opportunity, just like everybody else."
?El candidato Republicano que est? liderando las encuestas dice que los inmigrantes de M?xico son violadores y vendedores de drogas. ? Yo continuar? rechazando ese tipo de ret?rica odiosa. Porque los latinos y latinas no son extranjeros. No son invasores. Son nuestros vecinos, nuestros amigos, nuestra familia. Son nuestros compatriotas, y merecen respeto, dignidad, y oportunidades, al igual que todos.?
The bottom line? "Estoy contigo."

?I promise I'll keep working on my pronunciation to say it just right.?
?Prometo continuar practicando mi pronunciaci?n.?


  hillaryclinton loves being La Hillary! ??'?#latinosforhillary #hillary2016 #sa4hillary @ Sunset Station https://t.co/8AJqjsEISt— Eric Gloria (@EricGlorious) October 15, 2015


  Saw #HillaryClinton today. #LatinosForHillary kickoff here in San Antonio. Intro by #juliancastro! Viva #LaHillary !! pic.twitter.com/yFy0ediCl2— Oralia (@olara) October 15, 2015

??"rale Hillary!
To receive updates from the campaign trail, text LATINOS to 47246.
  