
    Hillary Clinton released the following statement after the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) endorsed her campaign for President:
"I am honored to have earned the support of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) and to stand with them in the fight to help working families get ahead and stay ahead. AFSCME has spent decades working to strengthen America's middle class and to give workers a voice."
"American workers built the middle class by fighting for higher wages, safer working conditions, retirement security, and the right to collectively bargain. Now, working families are under attack by Republicans who want to silence workers, strip them of their hard-won rights, and keep stacking the deck for those at the top.  As President, I will stand up for workers and fight attacks on collective bargaining.  I will fight to protect retirement security, including defined benefit plans and Social Security—because when unions are strong, families are strong, and when families are strong, America is strong.
"I am proud to stand with public sector workers at the federal, state, county and municipal levels of government. They make this country work.  Together with the men and women of AFSCME, I know that we can continue making progress and build a better future for working families across America."
The American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees (AFSCME) follows the National Education Association (NEA), The Operative Plasterers' and Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA), the Union of Painters & Allied Trades (IUPAT), United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America (UBC), United Union of Roofers, Waterproofers and Allied Workers, the American Federation of Teachers (AFT), the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers (IAMAW), the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers (BAC), and the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry (UA) in backing Clinton.
  