
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
September 30
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—A. A. Gromyko, Foreign Minister of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and other Soviet officials, Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Ambassador Paul C. Warnke, Director of the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Malcolm Toon, U.S. Ambassador to the Soviet Union, Dr. Brzezinski, and other U.S. officials, to discuss the strategic arms limitation talks;
—Foreign Minister Gromyko and Secretary Vance.
The White House announced that Dr. Brzezinski will visit France, the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United Kingdom October 2-4 for consultations. This trip is part of continuing consultations by Dr. Brzezinski with our allies.
The President has asked Vice President Mondale to head the U.S. delegation to the funeral of Pope John Paul I in Rome.
October 1
The White House announced that Mrs. Lillian Carter will head the U.S. delegation to Rome for the funeral of Pope John Paul I. Vice President Mondale will be unable to head the delegation because of this week's legislative agenda.
October 2
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Mondale.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors George Ashley Griffith of Grenada, Horst Grunert of the German Democratic Republic, Sean Donlon of Ireland, and Tabarak Husain of the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
October 3
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Mr. Moore;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Ambassador Toon and Mr. Aaron, to discuss SALT and U.S.-Soviet relations;
—Adm. Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, William J. Perry, Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, and Mr. Aaron;
—Governor Ricardo J. Bordallo of Guam;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch;
—the Cabinet, to discuss anti-inflation strategy and various pieces of legislation.
The President today announced the members of the delegation to the funeral of Pope John Paul I. They are:
MRS. LILLIAN CARTER, Personal Representative of the President;
THOMAS F. EAGLETON, U.S. Senator from Missouri;
ELLA GRASSO, Governor of Connecticut; MICHAEL BLOUIN, U.S. Representative from Iowa;
PETER SARROS, Acting Personal Representative of the President to the Vatican;
FRANCIS X. BELLOTTI, attorney general of Massachusetts;
EDWARD KOCH, mayor of New York; ERNEST MORIAL, mayor of New Orleans;
WILLIAM FITZGERALD, State senator from Michigan;
MARIO OBLEDO, California secretary of health and welfare; and
GERARD DOHERTY, a Boston, Mass., attorney.
October 4
The President met at the White House with:
—Mr. Aaron;
—Mr. Moore;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Robert O. Anderson, chairman of Atlantic-Richfield.
The President attended a portion of a White House briefing on energy given by administration officials in the East Room for a group of business leaders.
October 5
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—a group of Republican Members of Congress to discuss natural gas, energy, and other legislation;
—Secretary of the Treasury W. Michael Blumenthal, G. William Miller, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—Speaker of the House of Representatives Thomas P. O'Neill, Jr.
The President attended a briefing in the Old Executive Office Building given by administration officials for State and local officials, labor leaders, and other Democratic citizens from the State of Michigan.
The President has named Ambler H. Moss, Jr., U.S. Ambassador to Panama, and Lt. Gen. Dennis P. McAuliffe, Commander in Chief, U.S. Southern Command, Panama, as the U.S. delegation to the inauguration of the new President and Vice President of Panama.
October 6
The President met at White House with:
—Vice President Mondale, Secretaries Vance and Brown, Andrew J. Young, U.S. Representative to the United Nations, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan, to discuss the situation in Lebanon and other foreign policy issues;
—Mr. Moore;
—Dr. Schultze;
—Representative Robert C. Krueger of Texas;
—Michael Forrestal, president, and C. William Verity, Jr., chairman, U.S.-U.S.S.R. Trade and Economic Council, to discuss the council members' recent trip to the Soviet Union. The President transmitted to the Congress the 10th annual report on the National Housing Goal.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  