
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Each year, thousands of Americans are killed by fire. Tens of thousands more suffer from fire-related injuries. Tragically, the overwhelming majority of these fire deaths and injuries occur in places where people tend to feel most secure: their homes.
Although no one is immune to the threat of fire, our most vulnerable citizens -- older Americans and children -- are at greatest risk. Protecting the lives of these individuals and reducing the total number of deaths and injuries from fires in the United States require the sustained involvement and concern of all Americans and continued cooperation between the public and private sectors.
Throughout the year, numerous agencies and associations sponsor programs aimed at preventing fires that may cause death and injury. These local and national programs have conveyed the concerns of our Nation's fire service organizations to the public. They have helped people to recognize the destructive power of fire, and they have demonstrated what we can do, both individually and collectively, to protect ourselves from becoming victims of fire. All of these programs carry a vital message: each of us has the ability -- and, indeed, a responsibility -- to protect our families, our property, and our environment.
The National Fire Protection Association, which initiated Fire Prevention Week, has announced the theme of this year's observance: "Make Your Place Firesafe: Hunt for Home Hazards." This theme underscores the importance of recognizing dangers and taking measures to eliminate them. For example, every homeowner should install and maintain household smoke detectors; keep exits clear; avoid careless smoking; and store matches and lighters out of the reach of children. Homeowners should ensure that heating equipment is in good working order, and they should keep heating appliances at least 3 feet away from anything that can burn. Combustible or flammable liquids should be stored in proper containers, away from heat or flame, and electrical cords should be checked for cracks and frays. These and other simple steps can save lives.
Sharing the concerns of the National Fire Protection Association, the United States Fire Administration is coordinating public education campaigns designed to promote private-public partnerships for fire prevention.
Our Nation owes a debt of gratitude to these organizations and to all those individuals who are committed to preventing deaths and injuries from fire, including the members of the National Fire Academy; the International Association of Fire Chiefs; the International Association of Fire Fighters; the International Association of Black Professional Fire Fighters; the Fire Service Caucus Institute; the National Volunteer Fire Council; the International Society of Fire Service Instructors; the Fire Marshals Association of North America; the State Fire Marshals Association; and all other allied organizations.
Each year, the National Fallen Fire Fighters Memorial Service, held at the National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg, Maryland, honors those men and women who have answered their last alarm as volunteer or career fire fighters. On October 14, 1990, relatives and friends of fire fighters killed in the line of duty and representatives from the Nation's fire service organizations will gather to remember and pray for these heroic individuals. This week, as we make a special effort to identify and eliminate potential fire hazards in our homes and places of business, let us gratefully remember those fire fighters who have given their lives in the line of duty.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 7, 1990, as Fire Prevention Week. I call upon the people of the United States to plan and participate in fire prevention activities not only this week, but throughout the year. I also ask all Americans to join me in honoring the memory of those fire fighters who have made the ultimate sacrifice to protect the lives and property of their neighbors.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this Eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  