
    
  FORMER VIRGINIA CONGRESSMAN AND NRCC CHAIR TOM DAVIS, DELEGATES GLENN DAVIS, CHRIS PEACE AND RON VILLANUEVA, STATE SENATOR EMMETT HANGER, AND FORMER SENATOR AND HOUSE MAJORITY WHIP JEANNEMARIE DEVOLITES DAVIS THINK JOHN KASICH SHOULD BE PRESIDENT

Tom Davis to serve as Virginia Honorary Chair of Kasich for America
Delegates Glenn Davis, Peace, Villanueva, and Senator Hanger to serve as Virginia State Co-Chairs
Devolites Davis to serve on Leadership Team
Today former Congressman Tom Davis, Virginia Delegates Glenn Davis, Chris Peace, and Ron Villanueva, Virginia State Senator Emmett Hanger, and former Senator and House Majority Whip Jeannemarie Devolites Davis endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich for President. Tom Davis will now serve as Virginia State Honorary Chair of Kasich for America, Delegates Davis, Peace, Villanueva, and Senator Hanger will serve as State Co-Chairs, and former Senator Devolites Davis will join the Virginia Leadership Team.
Tom Davis served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1995 to 2008, and in 1998, Davis became chairman of the National Republican Congressional Committee (NRCC), where he was widely recognized as a prolific fundraiser and gifted political strategist for House Republicans. "I entered Congress just as John Kasich became Budget Committee Chairman, and saw firsthand how leadership and resolve can accomplish seemingly impossible tasks. While the naysayers said balancing the budget couldn't be done, that it wouldn't be done, and finally that it shouldn't be done, John Kasich helped lead a team that actually did it. The fact that America has been swimming in red ink since John Kasich left Washington speaks volumes to how sorely his leadership has been missed." Tom Davis's wife, Jeannemarie Devolites Davis, has the distinction of being the first female House Whip in Virginia history; today, she was also among those who joined the Kasich team.
After a successful, 15-year career as an IT business executive and entrepreneur, Glenn Davis was elected to the Virginia House of Delegates in 2013, and is now Chair of the Cybersecurity Subcommittee of the Joint Commission on Technology and Science. His pro-business advocacy was lauded by the Virginia Chamber of Commerce which named him "Freshman Legislator of the Year." Said Del. Davis, "The first step to America's next economic boom is getting Washington's books balanced, and the last person to balance them was John Kasich. As the House Budget Committee Chairman and as Governor, John Kasich knows the economic powerhouse we can become if we unleash ourselves from the shackles of debt."
A member of the Conservative Caucus, Chris Peace has served in the Virginia House of Delegates since 2006, and is currently Vice Chair of the prominent Appropriations, Health Welfare and Institutions, and General Laws Committees. In addition, he is Chairman of the General Laws Sub-committee on Housing and Chair of the Appropriations Sub-committee on Transportation. A tireless advocate for business, Del. Peace was recently named a "Champion of Free Enterprise" by the Virginia Chamber of Commerce for his A+ rating with the Chamber.
In 2009, Delegate Ron Villanueva made history, becoming the first Filipino-American ever to be elected to a state office in Virginia, and he remains a leader of the Filipino community. A small business owner and entrepreneur in Virginia Beach, Del. Villanueva is recognized as an unrelenting advocate for low taxes, pro-growth policies and economic prosperity.
Over the course of his more than 19 years in the Virginia legislature, Senator Emmett Hanger has earned a reputation as a strong fiscal conservative and advocate for limited government. His leadership has been recognized by his colleagues who selected him as a budget conferee as well as Chair of the Health and Human Services subcommittee on Senate Finance and Chairman of the Senate Agriculture, Conservation and Natural Resources Committee.
"In addition to having been an effective, respected Member of Congress, Tom Davis is known around Washington and Virginia as a smart political strategist and an influential Republican voice, and I am thrilled that he has joined our Virginia team," said Kasich. "With Tom working alongside Glenn Davis and our team of experienced, influential legislators, I know we are going to be successful in Virginia, and I am humbled by the confidence these men and women have placed in me to get America back on track."
  