
    The Clinton campaign announced today the formation of the New York Women for Hillary Council. The Council is made up of women from across the state who will be active leaders in New York, speaking to their friends, family and associates about this election, and helping to grow the network of women across America supporting Hillary Clinton's campaign.
This announcement is part of the campaign's week long focus on Women Changing America. During the week, the campaign is highlighting the decisive role women can play in this election, discussing issues important to women, and celebrating the ways that women are changing America everyday.
"In 35 years as an advocate for women, children and families, I know that women can make a powerful difference," Clinton said. "Women are changing America and I am so proud to welcome the New York Women for Hillary Council to our campaign. Working together, we will address the issues of concern to women and families, and how we can make the changes America needs."
Members of the New York Women for Hillary Council will join Hillary for a conference call this week. They are encouraged to be ambassadors for Hillary by reaching out to their networks on Hillary's behalf while also educating and empowering others to make history by making Hillary our 44th President.
"I am proud to support Hillary Clinton for president of the United States," said Geraldine Ferraro, the first and only woman to be the Vice Presidential nominee of a major party. "As a Democrat, as a woman, and as a New Yorker, I know there is no one better prepared than Hillary Clinton to take office in January 2009 and immediately start the work of turning this country around."
Hillary kicked off the week with an appearance on The View and spoke at the Eleanor Roosevelt Legacy Committee's Annual Fall Campaign Luncheon in New York. On Tuesday, she traveled to New Hampshire to announce a new policy proposal to help parents balance work and family life. On Wednesday, nearly 1,000 women contributors from 47 states around the country will convene for a women's summit in support of the Clinton campaign – a full-day event that will raise well over $1 million. And on Thursday, Hillary will discuss the importance of health care for women when she participates in the Presidential Candidate Forums organized by the Federation of American Hospitals and Families USA and hosts a conference call with health care professionals from the American Medical Women's Association.
The week's events underscore why Hillary enjoys such deep support among women voters by emphasizing how her strength and experience make her the candidate best able to deliver change on the issues most important to them.
The members of the New York Women for Hillary Council reflect Hillary's vast and diverse supporters, spanning all occupations and communities.
Hillary's Honorary New York Leadership Council Chair is Geraldine Ferraro.
Honorary New York Leadership Council Vice-Chairs:


Silda Wall Spitzer
Michelle Paige Paterson
Hon. Carolyn Maloney
Hon. Carolyn McCarthy
Hon. Judith Hope
Hon. Kirsten Gillibrand
Hon. Louise Slaughter
Hon. Nita Lowey
Hon. Nydia Velazquez
Hon. Yvette Clarke

[Click here] to see a comprehensive list of the members of the New York Women for Hillary Council.
  