
    The Association of Flight Attendants Union and the Association of Professional Flight Attendants announced their endorsements of Joe Biden for President yesterday.
The Association of Flight Attendants-CWA represents nearly 50,000 flight attendants across 20 airlines. In the endorsement, AFA International President Sara Nelson cited her work alongside Vice President Biden in 2014 to keep passengers safe and stop the spread of communicable diseases on transportation. She also commended Vice President Biden's track record of standing with union members, his support for workplace safety protections for frontline workers, and his plans to protect access to healthcare and to combat COVID-19.
In a statement, Nelson said: "The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the critical role government plays in ensuring the safety and security of the airline industry, our health both on the job and off, the relations with the rest of the world that give us the freedom to fly and compete in a global market, and the conditions under which we negotiate. Joe Biden has plans and a track record that respects and advances all of these issues. We need him as our president and we need to move forward as a country together."
Vice President Biden also received the endorsement of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants yesterday, which represents more than 27,000 Flight Attendants of American Airlines. In their endorsement, the union said that its support of Vice President Biden was in line with its "overall goal of electing labor-friendly, pro-Union" candidates, and cited Biden's support for increasing unionization, the right to organize and collective bargaining rights.
In the endorsement, APFA National President Julie Hedrick, said, "In these unprecedented times, we have seen firsthand what solidarity and unity within the Labor movement can produce." She continued, "We will collectively work with our Union sisters and brothers across the industry and the country to continue fighting to keep all our members on the job as we move closer to a vaccine. Vice President Biden shares our concerns for the future."
Joe has a real plan to strengthen union power and grow the middle class. As President, Joe will check the abuses of corporate power, support union organizing and collective bargaining, and fight for all workers to get the pay, benefits and protections they deserve.
See Joe Biden's full plan for Strengthening Worker Organizing, Collective Bargaining, and Unions.
  