
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Each year our hardworking farmers produce enough food and fiber to feed and clothe the people of America as well as those of many other countries. This nation is indeed fortunate to be blessed with such a productive farming system.
Many of our fellow countrymen, however, have had little exposure to the miracle of American agriculture—fewer than three percent of the nation's people feed and clothe the other ninety-seven percent. Caught up in the fast pace of urban life, city dwellers often take for granted the quiet and efficient regularity with which their rural counterparts sustain an entire population with such a plentiful supply of food and fiber.
Our future as a prosperous nation depends on our ability to keep a large number of interrelated parts working in harmony. Our farms and cities are inextricably connected by a great marketing chain of producers, transporters, processors, warehousemen, wholesalers, retailers, and consumers. This free market process will remain viable as long as its various links are strong enough to make their contributions to moving goods and services where they are needed. As the anchor points of this chain, farmers and city dwellers are absolutely crucial to each other.
To achieve a deeper appreciation of the interdependence of farms and cities, we set aside each November a Farm-City Week during which we call attention to the farmer-city dweller partnership which has contributed so much to the vitality and prosperity of our nation.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the period November 19 through November 25, 1982, as National Farm-City Week. I call on all Americans, those in rural areas and those in cities, to join in recognizing the accomplishments of our productive farm families and of our urban residents in working together in a spirit of cooperation and interdependence to create bounty, wealth, and strength for the nation.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 12th day of Oct., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightytwo, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  