
    Trump Campaign Notifies Super PAC's to Stop Unauthorized Fundraising and Return Donations
(New York, NY) October 23rd, 2015 - Donald J. Trump today announced he sent notices Wednesday disavowing nine unauthorized Super PAC's claiming to support him in his bid for the Republican nomination for President of the United States and subsequently demanding the return of all funds raised. Mr. Trump is self-funding his campaign and is only accepting unsolicited small dollar donations, of which he has received more than 75,000 with an average amount of $50 since launching his campaign. He has repeatedly stated his opposition to the use of Super PAC's and major contributions, which he has consistently turned down since announcing his candidacy and is calling on all candidates to do the same.
Mr. Trump stated, "I am self-funding my campaign and therefore I will not be controlled by the donors, special interests and lobbyists who have corrupted our politics and politicians for far too long. I have disavowed all Super PAC's, requested the return of all donations made to said PAC's, and I am calling on all Presidential candidates to do the same. The character of our country is only as strong as our leaders---the only special interest I am beholden to is the American people and together we will Make America Great Again!"
The letters, produced by Mr. Trump's campaign counsel, were sent on Wednesday, October 21st, 2015 and disavow all fundraising activities based on the confusion said PAC's could potentially cause with supporters across the country. Additionally, the letters request the return of any donations made to date. The letters state, "We are providing this written notice that your organization is not authorized to use Mr. Trump's name and likeness in connection with its fundraising activities, and we are formally disavowing such activities. Thus, given the invocation of Donald J. Trump in connection with your activities, we ask that you refund all funds received by you in connection with any fundraising undertaken to specifically support and/or done in the name of Donald J. Trump...The campaign has never received money from your PAC, nor does the campaign want any money, services or goods from your committee."
While Mr. Trump appreciates the incredible outpouring of grassroots support from all over the country he will continue to campaign with integrity, wholly independent of the dark money, donor class perpetuating a broken Washington, D.C. and the all talk, no action politicians propped up by donations representing corporate interests. Mr. Trump's only interest is to represent the people of the United States and Make America Great Again.
  