
    NHPR: "Graham Has Spent 42 Days In New Hampshire This Year, With Roughly 140 Campaign Stops. That Ranks Him Among The Most Frequent Travelers On The State's Primary Trail So Far."(Paige Sutherland, "Sluggish N.H. Campaign Doesn't Keep Lindsey Graham From Having a Blast, NHPR, 10/16/15)
Today, Senator Lindsey Graham wrapped up a 9-day campaign swing in New Hampshire where he continues to make the case to Granite State voters that he's most qualified to be Commander-in-Chief and ready to lead on day one. In case you missed it, take a look at some of the coverage that the #FITN tour has garnered during the final days of the swing:
NHPR: "If There Is One Theme Graham Is Emphasizing During His Campaign Stops, It's His Focus On Foreign Policy." (Paige Sutherland, "Sluggish N.H. Campaign Doesn't Keep Lindsey Graham From Having a Blast, NHPR, 10/16/15)
Graham: "As The World Continues To Fall Apart, As Syria Goes Into Further Chaos, And Iran Develops Their Missile Technology, As ISIL Rises, People Are Going To Be Looking For Experience To Replace Commander-In-Chief Barack Obama."(Morning Joe, "Graham: I'll re-evaluate if I do poorly in NH," MSNBC, 10/16/15)


"Our next president's greatest task is to undo the Obama Doctrine and reclaim our indispensable role as a force for global security. I am running for president because I am the only candidate with in-depth knowledge of these challenges and a detailed strategy for taking them on."(Senator Lindsey Graham, "Why We Need Troops On the Ground in Syria," IJReview, 10/15/15)

CNN: "GOP Presidential Candidates On Thursday Swiftly Criticized President Barack Obama's Decision To Delay The Withdrawal Of U.S. Troops In Afghanistan.""GOP presidential candidates on Thursday swiftly criticized President Barack Obama's decision to delay the withdrawal of U.S. troops in Afghanistan, with several using the announcement to blast the commander-in-chief's leadership of the war since taking office...Also in a statement, South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham called Obama's decision one 'that will require our men and women in uniform to accept an incredibly high risk, with little support, simply because he's the president who promised to end wars.'" (Heather Goldin, "2016 GOPers sound off over Obama's Afghanistan decision," CNN, 10/15/15)

Conway Daily Sun: "After Giving A Speech Mostly About His Background And How He Would Put More Troops On The Ground To Fight ISIL...Graham Took Questions From The audience."(Daymond Steer, "Graham speaks his mind at Gibson Center," Conway Daily Sun, 10/15/15)

Until Next Time, New Hampshire! 
  