
    Verona, PA - Former Senator Rick Santorum (R-PA) announced that his campaign for President has received the endorsements South Carolina State Representatives Bill Herbkersman and Andy Patrick.
State Representative Bill Herbkersman said, "Senator Santorum has shown a strong commitment to South Carolina and our role as the first-in-the-south primary state. He understands the strong values of South Carolina families and he has been embraced by South Carolinians for his strong leadership, values, and conviction. I look forward to working with Senator Santorum and his team as we move toward the South Carolina primary and beyond."

State Representative Patrick said: "I am excited to endorse Senator Santorum's candidacy for President. He has been a staunch defender of what makes America great. He understands that American exceptionalism is found in our founding principles that each and every American has been given rights and that it is the government's job to simply protect those rights, not spread them around. Senator Santorum is the one candidate best positioned to take on President Obama and return our nation to those founding principles, and I look forward to working with him and his campaign as they move toward victory in November 2012."

Senator Santorum said, "I am thrilled to have Bill and Andy's endorsement. They are true leaders for South Carolina conservatives and are leading the fight to preserve our founding principles. I am honored that they have decided to join the fight and endorse our candidacy, and I look forward to working with them as we build our campaign to win the first-in-the-south primary in South Carolina."

State Representative Bill Herbkersman of Bluffton, SC serves as a member of the Majority Whip team in the South Carolina State House of Representatives. Herbkerman is a community leader through his work with the Bluffton Rotary, Knights of Columbus, and the National Rifle Association. Representative Herbkerman and his wife Mary are the proud parents of two children, Shelby and Cole.

State Representative Andy Patrick of Hilton Head, SC serves as a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives, representing Beaufort County. Patrick is CEO of Advance Point Global and is a former Sergeant in the United States Air Force, trooper in the New York State Police, and Special Agent in the United States Secret Service. Representative Patrick and his wife Amee are the proud parents of five children: Joel, Hannah, Emma, Sasha, and Vlademir.
  