
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that former Missouri State Representative Jack Jackson has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Jackson will help organize Governor Romney's statewide grassroots efforts and communicate Governor Romney's message of conservative change in Washington.
Announcing the endorsement, Governor Romney said, "I am proud to have the endorsement of Mr. Jackson. He has dedicated his life to serving his nation and his community. We share the same belief that in order to keep our country safe and prosperous, we must have a stronger military, a stronger economy and stronger families. I look forward to his counsel as the campaign moves forward."
Former State Rep. Jackson said, "I firmly believe that Mitt Romney is the only candidate with the experience, vision and values to lead our country forward. We are facing a new generation of global challenges. Governor Romney and I share the belief that we need an unquestionably strong military. With a record of strong, conservative leadership, Governor Romney is ready to meet these challenges. I am proud to give him my full support."
Jackson joins Missouri Governor Matt Blunt, Missouri Speaker of the House Rod Jetton and former U.S. Senator Jim Talent in supporting Governor Romney's bid for the presidency. Governor Romney has also announced the Romney for President Missouri Legislative Leadership Team. The members of this team include State Senators Jason Crowell and Gary Nodler, Speaker Pro Tempore Bryan Pratt, State Representatives Shannon Cooper, David Day, Doug Funderbunk, Dwight Scharnhorst, Neal St. Onge, and Bryan Stevenson.
Background On Former State Representative Jack Jackson:
Former Missouri State Representative Jack Jackson Represented Part Of St. Louis County (District 89) In The Missouri House Of Representatives. He was elected to the Missouri State House in November 2002. Rep. Jackson served as Chairman of the House Veterans Committee and Chairman of the Joint Committee On Terrorism, Bioterrorism, and Homeland Security before he left the state legislature in 2006.
Rep. Jackson was a Co-chair for the Bush-Cheney 2004 Missouri Statewide Veterans Committee and was a member of the Bush-Cheney 2004 National Veterans Steering Committee.
In January 2004, Rep. Jackson retired as Chief Test Pilot for Boeing Company in St. Louis. He also worked as an engineer with General Motors. He was a colonel in the United States Marine Corps, serving in Vietnam and Desert Shield. He was on active duty for 11 years and in the Reserves for 19 years.
Rep. Jackson is a highly decorated combat veteran, flying over 600 combat missions and is the recipient of four Distinguished Flying Crosses, 33 Air Medals and was most recently awarded the Legion of Merit for service to his country when he retired as a Colonel in the Marine Corps.
A deacon in the Baptist Church, Rep. Jackson resides in Wildwood, Missouri with his wife of 40 years, Arleen. They have three children and eight grandchildren.
  