
    Pool Reports by Morgan Chalfant, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




October 28, 202108:22

In town pool report #1 -- good morning 
Good morning from the White House on a pleasant fall day in Washington. I'll be your in-town print pooler today before President Biden heads off to Rome. President Biden is scheduled to speak with the House Democratic Caucus (closed press) at 9am and then return to the White House to deliver remarks on his economic agenda at 11:30am. He'll depart for Europe just after noon.
Pool is expected to gather to leave for the Capitol in about 4 minutes.
Don't hesitate to reach out with questions.



October 28, 202109:05

In town pool report #2 - rolling
Motorcade is on the move as of 9:01am en route to the Capitol.
Your pooler saw a handful of aides get into cars before we departed, including who I believe to be Brian Deese, Susan Rice and Louisa Terrell.



October 28, 202109:14

In town pool report #3 - Biden at Capitol
?We arrived at the Capitol after a short drive at 9:08am. The president entered the Capitol a short bit afterwards and pool was inside for his arrival.
The president answered "yes" when asked asked if he had enough support to get progressives on board. He also said "it's a good day."
When a reporter asked if Sen. Sanders was on board, Biden answered:
"Everybody's on board," Biden said. "You aren't, aren't you."
The White House passes along the following -
A few protesters holding a sign that read "Biden keep your promises: we want to live"
Upon arrival at the Capitol, the President will be greeted by:Major General William J. Walker, House Sergeant at ArmsSpeaker Nancy Pelosi
The President and the Speaker will then greet in the Hall of Columns with:Majority Leader Steny HoyerMajority Whip James ClyburnAssistant Speaker Katherine ClarkDemocratic Caucus Chairman Hakeem JeffriesDCCC Chairman Sean Patrick Maloney



October 28, 202109:18

In town pool report #4 — meeting attendees
I tweeted video of the president's arrival for those interested:
https://twitter.com/mchalfant16/status/1453711960193785866?s=21
The White House passes the following along:
Traveling to the Capitol with the President:Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic CouncilSusan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy AdvisorCedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor & Director of the Office of Public EngagementLouisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsShuwanza Goff, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs and House LiaisonSasha Baker, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Strategic Planning for the National Security CouncilAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorAndrew Bates, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary



October 28, 202109:22

In town pool report #5 - correction
?Correction to pool report #3 - in my haste I included a line on the protesters below what the White House had sent. To clarify, the protesters were part of my own observation upon arriving at the Capitol. And to finish my thought —
A few protesters holding a sign that read "Biden keep your promises: we want to live" were positioned outside the Capitol when we arrived.



October 28, 202110:16

In town pool report #6 - Biden leaves meeting
Biden exited the meeting and passed the pool around 10:12am. He was inside speaking with Democrats for about an hour. He walked by the pool talking to Speaker Pelosi and didn't answer shouted questions from the press. Several aides followed behind.
We are rolling back to the White House as of 10:15am.



October 28, 202110:25

In town pool report #7 - back at WH 
We're back at the White House as of 10:22am. Pool did not see the president enter the White House.
Next up is Biden's 11:30am speech in the East Room which will be live streamed.



October 28, 202110:56

In town pool report #8 -- remarks at 11:15am
The White House says that the president's remarks will now occur at 11:15am. We're told to gather at 11am.
The speech will be livestreamed here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



October 28, 202111:42

In town pool report #9 — two min warning
Two-minute warning until remarks from President Biden.
Again, these remarks are streaming on the White House website. I'll send any color.
Pool spotted WH officials Mike Donilon and Bruce Reed at the back of the room.



October 28, 202112:08

In town pool report #10 — remarks over 
President Biden wrapped up his speech at 12:05pm. He did not answer shouted questions from reporters.
Vice President Harris joined Biden. FLOTUS was also spotted in the room seated watching the address behind the press.



October 28, 202112:17

In town pool report #11
Reporters are positioned on the South Lawn for departure.



October 28, 202112:37

In town pool report #12
POTUS and FLOTUS exited the White House hand-in-hand at 12:28pm. The president did not stop to take press questions. A number of aides followed behind. Marine One was wheels up at 12:32pm.
Handing off to out of town pool.
The White House shares the following:
Traveling on Marine One with the President and the First Lady:Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



October 28, 202114:18

In town pool report #13 -- heads up on AF1 gaggle in 15 mins
Passing along from the White House --
The gaggle on Air Force One with Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will begin in approximately 15 minutes and will be streamed on WH.gov/live



October 28, 202114:43

In town pool report #14 - gaggle ongoing 
The link is here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vl3axCZCIWE




 
Pool Reports by Catherine Lucey, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




October 28, 202109:02 EDT

Travel Pool Report #1 - Press Secretary
Good morning from Andrews Air Force Base. Passing on this update on Press Secretary Jen Psaki ahead of the trip:
Due to a family emergency, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki will no longer be traveling with the President for at least the first few days of the foreign trip. White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean Pierre will travel in her place.



October 28, 202112:49 EDT

Travel Pool Report #2 - JBA Departure 
Good afternoon from JBA.
President Biden is set to depart on his second foreign trip this afternoon - heading to Rome for the G20 and Glasgow for COP26.
Marine One touched down at 12:41 PM. Biden exited wearing a navy blazer and khakis, with aviators and no tie. He was with First Lady Jill Biden, in a black dress and jacket, with a colorful scarf.
He boarded without taking questions.
Details on travelers below.
Per the White House: Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, and NSC Senior Director for Europe Amanda Sloat will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Rome, Italy
The gaggle is tentatively supposed to come about an hour into the flight and should be played on https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/.
We will be wheels up shortly.
From the WH: Traveling on Air Force One to Rome, Italy with the President and the First Lady:Secretary of State Tony BlinkenJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorJen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First LadyAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsRyan Montoya, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Scheduling & AdvanceMala Adiga, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Policy & Projects for the First LadyDaleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor/Deputy NEC DirectorYohannes Abraham, Deputy Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary, NSCKarine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press SecretaryStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentAmanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for EuropeCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives, NSCThomas Winslow, Special Assistant to the President & & Senior Advisor to the Deputy Chief of StaffMichael LaRosa, Special Assistant to the President & Press Secretary for the First LadyAsel Roberts, Acting Chief of Protocol of the United States
Upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews, the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:Col. William (Chris) McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice CommanderMrs. Sarb Edmund, 89th Airlift Wing Senior/Training Protocol Specialist



October 29, 202102:27 CEDT

Travel Pool Report #3 - Rome Arrival
Air Force One touched down at Rome-Fiumicino International Airport at 2:24 AM local time.
TVs on in the press cabin were tuned to CNN for part of the flight including for Speaker Pelosi's press conference.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan gaggled during the flight. No other visitors to the press cabin.



October 29, 202102:46 CEDT

Travel Pool Report #4 - Rolling from Airport
President Biden exited AF1 at 2:36 AM with First Lady Jill Biden. He wore a dark suit and blue tie and she is wearing a red dress and coat with red heels.
They paused to speak with officials lined up on the tarmac before getting in the motorcade.
From the White House:
Upon arrival in Rome, Italy the President and the First Lady will be greeted by:
Mr. Uberto Vanni d'Archirafi, Senior Official of the Diplomatic Protocol of the Italian RepublicHer Excellency Maria Angela Zappia, Ambassador of the Italian Republic to the United StatesMr. Thomas D. Smitham, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy to ItalyMr. Patrick Connell, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Embassy to the Holy SeeMs. Jennifer Harhigh, Chargé d'Affaires a.i., U.S. Mission to the UN Agencies in Rome
At 2:44 AM we are rolling.



October 29, 202103:42 CEDT

Travel Pool Report #5 - Villa Taverna 
After a drive along the darkened highways and streets of Rome, including a glimpse of the Colosseum, the motorcade stopped at the US ambassador's residence at 3:35 AM.
Pool did not see President Biden. At 3:40 AM pool vans began moving again.



October 28, 202103:47 CEDT

Travel Pool Report #6 - Lid 
At 3:46 AM we have a lid. Good night.




  