
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Systemic lupus erythematosus (also known as lupus or SLE) is an inflammatory disease of connective tissue, which can produce changes in the structure and function of the skin, joints, and internal organs. Most often found in young women, lupus affects more than 500,000 victims. Ninety percent of these victims are women in the prime of life.
In recent years, the outlook for lupus patients has improved due to extensive and vigorous research. Positive results have emerged from studies uncovering several diverse defects of the immune system and from research on genetic and environmental factors influencing the disease. Studies on estrogen metabolism, data systems development and epidemiology have been fruitful. Evaluations of the course and treatment of the disease and its complications, and studies aimed at developing improved treatment, including new drugs and techniques, are all proving useful.
In order for us to take advantage of the knowledge already gained, public awareness of the characteristics and treatment of lupus—and of the need for continuing scientific research—remains essential. The Federal government and private voluntary organizations have developed a strong and enduring partnership committed to lupus research. I am confident that this concerted effort will ultimately uncover the cause and cure for this devastating disease.
In recognition of the need for greater public awareness of lupus, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 239, has designated the week of October 21 through October 27, 1984, as "Lupus Awareness Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I. Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 21 through October 27, 1984, as Lupus Awareness Week, and I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  