
    "We need Joe Biden, a leader who truly understands what Tribal sovereignty is and knows how to support Tribal nations in their nation building efforts."
Yesterday, nearly 200 tribal and Indian leaders announced their endorsement of Joe Biden for President of the United States. In an open letter, the leaders praised Joe Biden's record as someone who understands Indian Country, and is willing to fight for the resources tribal nations need in order to be successful. The leaders write that as they continue to face enormous challenges to protect the health, safety, and welfare of their nations, Indian Country needs a leader who is willing to take bold action and make the investments that are needed to keep tribal citizens safe, a leader like Joe Biden.
The endorsements follow the release of the Biden-Harris Plan for Tribal Nations last week. The plan will work to uphold the United States' trust responsibility to Tribal nations, strengthen the Nation-to-Nation relationship between the United States and Indian Tribes, and work to empower Tribal nations to govern their own communities and make their own decisions.
Read the letter and see the full list of endorsements here:
Indianz.com: Hundreds of tribal and Indian Country leaders endorse Joe Biden for president[By Indianz.com, 10/15/20]
The Joe Biden campaign on Thursday released a list of nearly 200 tribal and Indian leaders who have endorsed the 2020 Democratic presidential ticket.
The endorsement pledge reads:
"I'M SUPPORTING JOE BIDEN FOR PRESIDENT IN 2020!
I am proud to give my support for Joe Biden in the 2020 presidential election. As Indian Country continues to face enormous challenges to protect the health, safety, and welfare of their nations, we need a leader who is willing to take bold action and make the investments that are needed to keep our tribal citizens safe.
Throughout his tenure in the political arena, Joe Biden has demonstrated time and time again that he is a leader who understands Indian Country, and is willing to fight for the resources our tribal nations need in order to be successful. We need Joe Biden, a leader who truly understands what Tribal sovereignty is and knows how to support Tribal nations in their nation building efforts.
I am proud to do everything I can to ensure that Joe Biden is elected this November and am thrilled to work with his administration to ensure Indian Country has a seat at the table of decision making in every matter that affects our people for generations to come."
  