
    Jill and I are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and a patriot of unmatched honor and dignity, General Colin Powell.
The son of immigrants, born in New York City, raised in Harlem and the South Bronx, a graduate of the City College of New York, he rose to the highest ranks of the United States military and to advise four Presidents. He believed in the promise of America because he lived it. And he devoted much of his life to making that promise a reality for so many others.
As a Senator, I worked closely with him when he served as National Security Adviser, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and as Secretary of State. Over our many years working together—even in disagreement—Colin was always someone who gave you his best and treated you with respect.
Colin embodied the highest ideals of both warrior and diplomat. He was committed to our Nation's strength and security above all. Having fought in wars, he understood better than anyone that military might alone was not enough to maintain our peace and prosperity. From his front-seat view of history, advising Presidents and shaping our Nation's policies, Colin led with his personal commitment to the democratic values that make our country strong. Time and again, he put country before self, before party, before all else—in uniform and out—and it earned him the universal respect of the American people.
Having repeatedly broken racial barriers, blazing a trail for others to follow in Federal Government service, Colin was committed throughout his life to investing in the next generation of leadership. Whether through his care for the women and men serving under his command and the diplomats he led, or through the work he shared with his wife Alma at the America's Promise Alliance to lift up young people, or through his years leading the Eisenhower Fellowships, Colin's leadership always included a focus on future.
Above all, Colin was my friend. Easy to share a laugh with. A trusted confidant in good and hard times. He could drive his Corvette Stingray like nobody's business, something I learned firsthand on the race track when I was Vice President. And I am forever grateful for his support of my candidacy for President and for our shared battle for the soul of the Nation. I will miss being able to call on his wisdom in the future.
Jill and I are sending all our love and strength to Alma, their children Linda, Annemarie, and Michael, their grandchildren, and the entire Powell family. Our Nation mourns with you. Colin Powell was a good man. He will be remembered as one of our great Americans.
  