
    "Americans have a clear choice this November to address our nation's ongoing energy crisis. Four years of President Obama's failed energy policies have produced fewer jobs and higher prices at the pump. And Americans can't afford four more years that will make energy prices 'skyrocket.' As president, Mitt Romney will provide relief to struggling families by putting America on a course to energy independence, lowering prices at the pump, and creating millions of jobs for American workers." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, Americans Around The Nation Are Struggling With Increasing Energy Costs:
Since President Obama Took Office, The Price For A Gallon Of Regular Gasoline Has More Than Doubled From $1.85 When He Took Office To $3.85 Today. (Energy Information Administration, Accessed 10/9/12)
"Retail Gasoline Prices, Already At The Highest Levels On Average Since July 2008" Are Expected To Continue To Climb. "Retail gasoline prices, already at the highest levels on average since July 2008, are likely to continue to climb this month as refinery and pipeline problems overshadow weakness in U.S. consumer demand." (Sharon Epperson, "Gasoline Prices Set To Rise Through Election Day," CNBC, 10/5/12)
But President Obama Isn't Delivering Relief — He's Blocked A Source Of North American Energy And Thousands Of American Jobs:
President Obama "Continues To Stand In The Way Of The Keystone XL Pipeline" — Which Is Projected To Create Thousands Of Jobs.  "President Obama continues to stand in the way of the Keystone XL pipeline, though increasingly he's standing alone. ... Big Labor and Western Governors such as Montana Democrat Brian Schweitzer support the Keystone for the thousands of jobs it will create, which is adding to the pressure on Capitol Hill Democrats." (Editorial, "Democrats For Keystone," The Wall Street Journal, 4/20/12)


    The Canadian Oil Delivered Through The Keystone Pipeline Will Enhance "America's Energy Security" And Deliver "Lower" Prices Per Barrel. "Western Canadian oil is currently trading for $70 U.S. per barrel. So in addition to enhancing America's energy security, the price to acquire Canadian oil is much lower. It is important to note that this pipeline will carry Canadian and American oil produced and owned by the producing oil companies. We transport it on behalf of these companies and retain no ownership of the resource." (TransCanada Website, Accessed 10/9/12)
  

The Wall Street Journal: "The White House Bowed To The Green Lobby And The Environmental Protection Agency..." "TransCanada filed an application to build the 1,661-mile underground pipeline in September 2008 and passed two lengthy State Department reviews. But the White House bowed to the green lobby and the Environmental Protection Agency and sent the parties back to the drawing board in January." (Editorial, "The Keystone Democrats," The Wall Street Journal, 3/10/12)
And President Obama Has Stood In The Way Of Increased Domestic Production On Federal Lands:
"Obama Didn't Take Any Major Action Expanding Offshore Drilling In His First Year In Office." "In 2010, most if not all of the production increase recorded is likely due to action that predates Obama, since Obama didn't take any major action expanding offshore drilling his first year in office." (Amy Harder, "Obama's Fuzzy Oil Production Math," National Journal, 3/17/11)
"Production Of Natural Gas On Public Lands And Waters In Fiscal 2011 Dropped 11 Percent From The Previous Year, According To Interior Department Data. Oil Production Dipped Nearly 14 Percent." (Phil Taylor, "Production On Federal Tracts Fell In 2011," Greenwire, 2/27/12)
"Production Levels Well Below The Rates From 1951 Through 2002." "We pointed this out in an examination of the president's State of the Union address, citing an Energy Information Administration graphic that shows production levels well below the rates from 1951 through 2002." (Josh Hicks, "Oil War: The Ad Battle Between 'Big Oil' And DNC, Part 2," The Washington Post, 3/30/12)
The Wall Street Journal: "The Reality Is That Most Of The Increase In U.S. Oil And Gas Production Has Come Despite The Obama Administration." (Editorial, "'Stupid' And Oil Prices," The Wall Street Journal, 2/27/12)
And Four More Years Of President Obama Won't Be Any Better For Energy Prices — He's Waged A War On Coal And Threatened To Revive His Cap-And-Trade Plan:
President Obama Has Said "The Most Important Policy He Could Address" In A Second Term Is Climate Change. "Obama has an ambitious second-term agenda, which, at least in broad ways, his campaign is beginning to highlight. The President has said that the most important policy he could address in his second term is climate change, one of the few issues that he thinks could fundamentally improve the world decades from now." (Ryan Lizza, "The Second Term," The New Yorker, 6/18/12)


    FLASHBACK: Candidate Obama, On His Cap-And-Trade Plan: "Under My Plan Of A Cap-And-Trade System, Electricity Rates Would Necessarily Skyrocket." OBAMA: "When I was asked earlier about the issue of coal, you know, under my plan of a cap and trade system, electricity rates would necessarily skyrocket. Even regardless of what I say about whether coal is good or bad. Because I'm capping greenhouse gases, coal power plants, you know, natural gas, you name it, whatever the plants were, whatever the industry was, uh, they would have to retrofit their operations. That will cost money. They will pass that money on to consumers." (Sen. Barack Obama, Interview With San Francisco Chronicle's Editorial Board, 1/17/08)
  

President Obama's Crackdown On Coal Plants Will Raise Electricity Costs For Consumers. "Some utility officials said the new rules and others that the Obama administration plans to enact in the coming months could force the retirement of several coal plants. That, in turn, will raise electricity costs for consumers, said American Electric Power spokesman Pat Hemlepp." (Juliet Eilperin and Darryl Fears, "EPA To Impose New Power Plant Rules," The Washington Post, 7/7/11)
  