
    Massive Haul Includes Trump Victory's Largest Digital Fundraising Day Ever
WASHINGTON — Donald J. Trump for President, Inc., the Republican National Committee (RNC), and their authorized joint fundraising committees announced a record-breaking $26 million haul around last night's final presidential debate. This was the re-election effort's largest digital fundraising day ever, raising 30 percent more and reactivating 20 percent more past donors than previous debates. October is already Trump Victory's largest online fundraising month ever, with this surge of donations double the size of the surge that propelled President Trump to victory in 2016—this time a week earlier. The re-election effort's continued fundraising success is powering the largest infrastructure in political history, with only 11 days to go until Election Day.
"In the final days of 2016 we saw a surge in online donations which preceded a rise in public polling, leading directly to victory," said Gary Coby, Trump 2020 digital director. "That surge is here again -- triple in size and a week earlier than in 2016!"
"President Trump's stellar performance at last night's debate motivated supporters to contribute in a historic way," said RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel. "Last night, voters saw exactly what is at stake in this election: four more years of strengthening the economy, protecting American jobs, and revamping our broken health care system under President Trump versus Joe Biden's 'dark winter' vision for America. With only 11 days left until the most important election of our lifetimes, Trump Victory is using every resource to mobilize our volunteer army, reach every last voter, and deliver historic wins for President Trump and Republicans up and down the ballot."
Recently, the joint effort between the Trump Campaign and RNC surpassed 2.5 million volunteers, besting the widely-heralded Obama re-elect to become the largest campaign in political history. The GOP is harnessing these volunteers to execute the largest and most aggressive Get Out The Vote program, primarily focused on Early Voting and voting on Election Day.
While Biden and the Democrats have no ground game and are solely relying on ads, Trump Victory is knocking on nearly four million doors a week and making 10 million phone calls while the Biden campaign lags far behind.
Trump Victory's continued investment in the largest field operation in history—and Biden's abandonment of any field strategy—is sure to deliver historic victories for President Trump and Republicans on November 3rd.
  