
    
What's in Hillary's closet? A lifetime of looks.
From her simple beginnings in Park Ridge, Illinois, to her statement-making years as secretary of state, Hillary has always showcased her signature style. Make a declaration of your own this Halloween in one of these four looks—or enlist your friends and put together a group costume that spans decades.

Park Ridge Hillary
In high school, Hillary's favorite Beatle was Paul McCartney—and she was known to debate his merits with her George Harrison-obsessed best friend, Betsy. Her dad, Hugh, ran a tight ship—and Hillary learned to master the art of negotiation over curfews and prom dresses.
Get ready for picture day at Maine South High School with this Hillary Rodham?approved Halloween costume:

White collared blouse
Plaid jumper
Curled hair



Hipster Hillary
LIFE magazine featured Wellesley College's first-ever student commencement speaker—Hillary Rodham—in its graduation round-up, "The Class of '69." On the cusp of the '70s, Hillary donned oversize wire-frame glasses, strappy leather sandals, and psychedelic striped pants for the LIFE photoshoot.
Channel her hipster style for Halloween:

White blouse
Glasses
Striped pants
Leather shoes
Long, loose hair



"Women's rights are human rights" Hillary
At the 1995 U.N. Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing, Hillary declared, "Human rights are women's rights, and women's rights are human rights." Today, she's continuing that fight for women and families.
Twenty years after her speech, suit up and stand with Hillary for equal pay, access to health care, and paid family leave.
You'll need:

Pink suit
White necklace
Gold brooch



"Texts from Hillary" Hillary
As secretary of state, Hillary fought for the global advancement of women and girls, negotiated strict sanctions on Iran, and helped restore America's credibility in a fractured world.
But she also rocked power pantsuits and scrunchies while sending texts from her BlackBerry. Run the world—if only for a night—with a Texts from Hillary?inspired Halloween costume:

Sunglasses
Black jacket
Blue necklace and brooch
BlackBerry (but any texting device will do!)


  