
    Mitt Romney today announced his Florida Finance Team.
"I am proud to announce my Florida Finance Team," said Mitt Romney. "Having the resources to go up against President Obama and his billion dollar campaign will be necessary for success in November 2012. Their hard work will be crucial to my efforts in Florida and across the country."
"I am proud to be a part of such an impressive team," said Brian Ballard. "More importantly, we are proud to stand behind the man who will be the next President and who will turn our economy around. Mitt Romney is the only candidate with experience creating jobs and turning around organizations in both the private and public sectors. All the members of the Florida Finance Team look forward to raising the necessary funds for Mitt to win in Florida and beat President Obama."
"I am glad to be part of the Florida Finance Team," said Ambassador John Rood. "Mitt Romney assembled such a great team to go up against President Obama. We stand united behind Mitt's pro-growth message and his proven record of leadership. Raising funds for his campaign will be essential to defeating President Obama and getting our economy back on track."
"Our team has been working hard to defeat President Obama," said Jay Demetree. "I look forward to helping to ensure we have the resources to win in Florida and across America. I am proud to get behind Mitt Romney and join his Florida Finance Team."
Members of Mitt Romney's Florida Finance Team:
State Chairs:

Brian & Kathryn Ballard
Jay & Tammy Demetree
Ambassador John Rood

State Co-Chairs:

Bill & Ann Bain
Nick Beckwith
Speaker Allan Bense
Carlos & Janelle Beruff
David & Caroline Cardenas
Gary & Nancy Chartrand
Jim & Kathy Dahl
Remedios Diaz-Oliver
Lew Eisenberg
Mike & Constance Fernandez
T. Martin Fiorentino
Paul Fireman
Bill Heavener
Mori & Forough Hosseini
Darlene & Jerry Jordan
William Koch
Dr. Gary Kompothecras
Rodger & Hillary Krouse
Bruce Kulp
Ned Lautenbach
Marc Leder
Genean McKinnon
Donald & Priscilla Miller
Gary & Renee Morse
Rick & Lynn Mullaney
Lee Munder
Tom & Betty Petway
Ronna Romney
Ambassador Francis & Kathleen Rooney
Steve Ross
Melanie Sabelhaus
Brent & Debbie Sembler
Ambassador Mel & Betty Sembler
Ambassador Ned & Stephanie Siegel
Jim Stanley
Tony Tamer
Senator John & Jean Thrasher
Dr. Zachariah Zachariah
Dr. Paul Zimmerman

Statewide Finance Committee:

Scott Adams
Marta Batmasian
Richard Corbett
Toni & Andy Crawford
Bruce Deardoff
June & Ferdinand Duda
Charles Githler
Steve Halverson
Robert Hershenhorn
Mike Hightower
Fred Leonhardt, Jr.
Tom Neff
Lee Nutter
Duane & Sue Ottenstroer
Don Phillips
Dr. Peter Wish
Jordan & Denise Zimmerman

  