
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President announced the launch of Team Mitt Action Center, an online social networking platform that shares features common to popular social networks like Facebook, MySpace and LinkedIn. Team Mitt Action Center empowers Governor Romney's supporters at every level to make a direct, positive impact on his presidential campaign.
Team Mitt Action Center features include the ability to load your picture and customize your profile; to create and manage events in your neighborhood; to engage in grassroots, peer-to-peer fundraising; and to network with friends and fellow supporters across America. After the current beta phase, additional features and expanded functionality will be added to accommodate Romney supporters as the campaign progresses.
As part of the launch, Romney for President is also announcing "Ask Team Mitt Anything," a weekly series of live, online, text-based chats with prominent supporters and members of the campaign.
Campaign Manager Beth Myers will host the first chat on Tuesday, October 9 at 2pm EDT in anticipation of Governor Romney's participation in the CNBC/MSNBC/Wall Street Journal debate in Michigan. Ann Romney, Political Director Carl Forti, and Senator Jim DeMint (R-SC) will host "Ask Team Mitt Anything" chats in future weeks. All chat hosts will have Team Mitt Action Center profiles to maintain an ongoing connection with campaign supporters.
Mindy Finn, Director of eStrategy, said, "Team Mitt Action Center continues our campaign's practice of providing cutting-edge, innovative, and democratizing tools for voters to get involved in the political process. And the 'Ask Team Mitt Anything' chat series will provide a great opportunity for our campaign to engage and interact with supporters across America."
To sign up for Team Mitt Action Center, please visit: www.MittRomney.com/TMAC.
Selected Team Mitt Action Center Features:
My Dashboard: Team Mitt members will use their dashboard to track their friends, their fundraising, their events, and their network progress at a glance. As they engage new voters and grassroots supporters, Team Mitt members will see their progress bar move forward.
My Profile: Team Mitt members can customize their profile with their picture, their contact information, their issue priorities, their coalitions, and their presence on other social networking sites like Facebook, MySpace, YouTube, and Flickr.
My Fundraising: Team Mitt members can set goals for and track the progress of their peer-to-peer fundraising efforts, send personalized fundraising appeals, and invite friends to join Team Mitt.
My Events: Team Mitt members can create their own events to discuss the campaign or raise money for Governor Romney or find nearby events in their own area to attend.
My Friends: Team Mitt members can search, add and manage their friends within the Action Center. Members can set privacy settings for each of their friends to control the amount of information that each is permitted to view.
  