
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that Tommy Thompson, former Republican Presidential candidate and Wisconsin Governor, has endorsed Mayor Giuliani for President. Thompson will serve as National Co-Chair of the Mayor's campaign.
Thompson, who also served as Secretary of Health and Human Services under President George W. Bush, was elected to an historic four terms as Wisconsin Governor. As National Co-Chair, Thompson will help promote Rudy's record of results and leadership as Mayor of New York City, while talking about the Mayor's bold vision for America.
"Rudy Giuliani has shown that he is a true leader. He is America's Mayor and during a period of time of great stress for this country he showed tremendous leadership," said Governor Thompson. "He can and will win the nomination and the Presidency of the United States."
"I'm honored to have the endorsement and support of Governor Tommy Thompson," said Mayor Giuliani. "He is a strong conservative with a record of achieving fiscal discipline, implementing tort reform, and bringing about innovation in government. Governor Thompson gave leadership to the Department of Health and Human Services during a period of great crisis, and his expertise in this area is invaluable. I'm honored to have his support and I look forward to learning from his experience and leadership."
About Governor Tommy Thompson:
Governor Thompson was elected to four terms as Wisconsin Governor, beginning in 1986 and serving until his appointment as President George W. Bush's Secretary of Health and Human Services in 2001. He served in that capacity until 2005.
As Wisconsin Governor, Thompson is best known for his efforts to revitalize the state's economy and for his national leadership on welfare reform. Thompson served as the nation's leading advocate for the health and welfare of all Americans as head of the United States Department of Health and Human Services.
Governor Thompson has been recognized for his commitment to public service, including being named Governing Magazine's Public Official of the Year. He is a former chairman of the National Governors' Association, the Education Commission of the States and the Midwestern Governors' Conference.
Governor Thompson's long and distinguished public service career began when he won a seat in Wisconsin's state Assembly in 1966, which included service as Assembly Minority Leader. He received both his B.S. and J.D. from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.
  