
    I want to make a deal with you. I need you to help me be elected President. And, as you know, Presidents have a limited amount of authority, but I'm asking the authorities to give all these five schools the day off tomorrow. How would you like that? [Applause] Now don't you forget, this is a Democratic holiday, not a Republican holiday, right?
What a beautiful day this is. Just look around you. Look at the beautiful blue sky, just breathe the fresh air. I guess the trees and the volcanoes took a day off today, right?
One thing that I'd like to say, and I'll be very brief: Young people, adults, senior citizens all have an opportunity every 4 years to shape the future of this country, to look to the years ahead to see what kind of nation we will have. One person, a few people, can make a lot of difference. Back in 1960, if 28,000 people had voted differently in Texas and if just a few thousand had voted differently in the State of Illinois, John Fitzgerald Kennedy would never have been President of this great Nation. In 1968 the contest was primarily between Hubert Humphrey, Richard Nixon, and a third candidate named George Wallace. George Wallace took a lot of votes away from the Democratic nominee. The election was very close. Had Democrats remembered the future of our Nation and had Democrats in 1968 given their support to a great man, Hubert Humphrey, Richard Nixon would never have been President of this country and we would have saved ourselves a lot of embarrassment and a major setback in the programs that are important to you and to the people that you love.
I've come here today as a Democrat in the tradition of Franklin Roosevelt, Harry Truman, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, Lyndon Baines Johnson, Hubert Humphrey to remind you of the past, to let you know that what a great nation we have today, and how much better nation we can have in the future. Don't forget to work hard, because it's an investment for yourselves and for the people who look to you whom you love.
It's also an investment in the peace of our country and the humanitarian ideals that have bound Democrats together. So, take the day off tomorrow. Between now and the next 3 weeks work hard, and let's elect Democrats from the top all the way to the bottom and show the Republicans that we can fight when the time comes.
Thank you very much. God bless you all.
  