
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Chuck Denowh will serve as Senior Adviser of the Montana Romney for President team. Denowh is a Montana native and has been working in Republican politics in the state since 2000. He will play a critical role in continuing to build a strong grassroots organization for Governor Romney in the state.
"Chuck has a long record of working to promote conservative principles in the state of Montana. He understands the need for Republicans to act like Republicans and unite to bring conservative change to Washington," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to working with Chuck to make sure Montanans know I will work to strengthen our military, our economy, and our families."
"Governor Romney has shown strong leadership on the issues that are important to Montanans. As Governor, he fought to lower taxes, cut government spending, reform health care, and enforce immigration laws," said Denowh. "As President, he will bring that same energy and experience to Washington to turn around our government and make it work for the people of Montana, and the rest of the country."
Chuck joins previously announced Romney for President Montana Co-Chairs Former Governor Tim Babcock and Secretary of State Brad Johnson as a part of Governor Romney's Montana team.
Background On Chuck Denowh:
Chuck Denowh Most Recently Served As The Executive Director Of The Montana Republican Party. In four years time under Denowh's leadership, the Party grew from three employees to twenty and fundraising nearly tripled. He also implemented Montana's first party-based grassroots organization with offices in seven counties serving over 1,000 volunteers statewide. Following the 2006 election, Chuck left the Republican Party to start his own political consulting business and he joined the Montana Group in mid-2007.
Denowh began his political career on the staff of the Montana House of Representatives, where he worked as Chief Policy Aide for the House Majority Leaders in 2001 and 2003. Denowh earned his BA and MPA from the University of Montana. He's a Montana native from Sidney, where his family maintains a registered Angus cattle operation.
  