
    Today I have signed into law H.R. 2491, the "Departments of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 1994."
The Act provides funding for the Departments of Veterans Affairs (VA) and Housing and Urban Development and independent agencies including the Environmental Protection Agency, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and National Science Foundation. This Act will fund important activities in the space program, housing programs, environmental protection, and programs for our Nation's veterans.
I am pleased that the Act provides the funding for a number of my high-priority investment proposals, including the National Service Initiative. The National Service Initiative will provide an opportunity for young people to obtain funding for a college education while serving the country in areas of great need such as education, environment, public safety, and human services.
The Act also provides funding for the redesigned Space Station and New Technology Investments. These programs will set a new direction for the Nation in space exploration, science, and technology.
The Act includes $6.7 billion in funding for the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The Act provides funds for EPA programs that protect our environment through enforcement of our environmental laws, cleanup of hazardous waste sites, and construction of needed water and waste-water treatment facilities.
The Act meets the needs of our Nation's veterans by providing $15.6 billion in VA medical care, an increase of $980 million over the FY 1993 enacted level.
The Act includes $25.4 billion in funding for the Department of Housing and Urban Development, including funding for programs such as the HOME block grants for housing, Community Development Grants, and Severely Distressed Public Housing. These programs will assist communities and individuals in revitalizing neighborhoods and increasing opportunities for home ownership.
The Act provides $3 billion in funding for the National Science Foundation, a $283 million increase over the FY 1993 enacted level. These programs will promote basic research that is vital to enabling our Nation to compete in world markets.
Regrettably, the Act does not fund all of my priority investment proposals, including the Community Investment Program and Community Development Banks. Due to tight budget constraints, the Congress has had the difficult task of balancing the competing priorities of this Act. Although I am disappointed this bill does not fund these programs and includes cuts to programs in space, science, and technology, the bill provides funding for veterans programs, housing initiatives, and environmental programs at acceptable levels. We will continue to work with the Congress to address our mutual concerns in seeking solutions to our Nation's problems.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, October 28, 1993.
  