
    Today, Second Lady Karen Pence delivered remarks to business leaders, military service members, military spouses, and senior leaders from both government and non-government military service organizations at the 2019 Military Spouse Employment Partnership (MSEP) New Partner Induction Ceremony. This partnership has created a network of non-profit, business, and government agencies that have committed to train and hire military spouses, who currently face a 24% unemployment rate
The ceremony inducted 42 new partners. Mrs. Pence highlighted the efforts of the new and current committed partners to reduce the unemployment rate among military spouses and the important work they are doing to hire, invest, and retain military spouses. She also emphasized the selfless support and sacrifices military spouses make every day and their vital contributions to our armed forces and military communities.
"Military spouses are strong, reliable and flexible. They are the kind of worker we want in the American workforce," said Second Lady Karen Pence. "I commend the commitment made by the partners to recruit, hire, promote, and retain military spouses. The work of the partnership will make a difference and help our nation's military readiness."
In the fall of 2018, Mrs. Pence launched an awareness campaign to promote and encourage military spouses. The Second Lady has since been traveling throughout the country and world, addressing military spouse employment challenges and ways to better collaborate on employment opportunities for military spouses.
To stay updated on Mrs. Pence's visits and events, follow the Second Lady on Twitter and Instagram.
About the Military Spouse Employment Partnership (MSEP)
The Military Spouse Employment Partnership is part of the Department of Defense's Spouse Education and Career Opportunities (SECO) initiative and officially launched in 2011 with the intent to strengthen the educational and career opportunities for military spouses. You can learn more about MSEP here.
  