
    The President. So we have a big night. I think it'll be very interesting. I assume most of you will be there for the official swearing-in of Judge Kavanaugh. And I think it will be something very, very special.
I've always been told it's the biggest thing a President can do, and I can understand that. So it will be very special.
Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein 
Q. What did you say to Rod Rosenstein, sir?
The President. We just had a very nice talk. We actually get along. And a really good talk.
Investigation Into Russia's Interference in 2016 Presidential Election 
Q. [Inaudible]—the case?
The President. Yes, I'm not doing anything. I'm good. So I'm not—I don't want to do anything about that. That—I think we'll be treated very fairly. Everybody understands there was no collusion. There is no Russia. It was all made up by the Democrats. They're the ones that colluded with Russia.
Q. Do you believe that he lied—[inaudible]?
The President. The Democrats colluded with Russia. And frankly, the previous administration didn't do anything about Russia when they knew that they should have.
Yes.
Deputy Attorney General Rod J. Rosenstein 
Q. Mr. President, have you decided to keep Rod Rosenstein?
The President. You've got to speak up. Look.
[At this point, the President pointed to the Marine One helicopter in the background.]
Q. Have you decided to keep Rod Rosenstein—[inaudible]?
The President. I said that I was going—I'm not making any changes. You'd be the first to know. I'm not making any changes though.
Q. Did you ask about——
Disappearance of Saudi Journalist Jamal Khashoggi 
Q. Mr. President, are you concerned about this Saudi journalist who may have been killed—[inaudible]? Have you heard anything about that? The President. I am concerned about it. I don't like hearing about it. And hopefully, that will sort itself out. Right now nobody knows anything about it, but there are some pretty bad stories going around. I do not like it.
Thank you. I'll see you at 7 o'clock.
Musician Taylor Swift/Tennessee Republican Senatorial Candidate Representative Marsha Wedgeworth Blackburn 
Q. What do you have to say to Taylor Swift now that she's in politics? Taylor Swift jumping into politics. What do you have to say to her?
The President. And what did she say?
Q. She said she wants people to vote for Democrats. And not Marsha Blackburn, especially.
The President. You know, well, Marsha Blackburn is doing a very good job in Tennessee. She's leading now substantially, which she should. She's a tremendous woman. I'm sure Taylor Swift has nothing—or doesn't know anything about her. And let's say that I like Taylor's music about 25-percent less now. Okay? Thank you.
Q. Do you trust Rod Rosenstein, sir? Do you trust——
  