
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
October 24
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Los Angeles, CA, and in the evening, he traveled to San Francisco, CA.
October 25
In the morning, the President had separate telephone conversations with King Hassan II of Morocco, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, Crown Prince Abdallah of Saudi Arabia, and Prime Minister Tony Blair of the United Kingdom on the Wye River Middle East peace talks.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
October 27
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Genaro Arriagada of Chile, Geza Jeszenszky of Hungary, Luis Alberto Moreno of Colombia, and Amilcar Spencer Lopes of Cape Verde.
October 29
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Cape Canaveral, FL.
In the afternoon, the President awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to former Representative Dante B. Fascell in the Conference Room of the ATOM Building at the John F. Kennedy Space Center.
In the evening, the President traveled to West Palm Beach, FL, and later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Anita Freedman as a member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
October 30
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City, and in the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Myron M. Cherry as Arbitrator, International Center for the Settlement of Investment Disputes.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following members of the Commission on Drug-Free Communities: Marilyn Culp, Thomas Dortch, Ruby Hearn, Jessica Hulsey, Scott King, Charles Larson, Henry Lozano, Claire McCaskill, Mary Ann Solberg, Carol Stone, and Hope Taft.
The president announced his intention to appoint James K. Huhta as a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
  