
    Today, Romney for President announced additional members of its Jewish Americans for Romney coalition.
"Having the backing of even more members of the Jewish American community is both an honor and a sign of the growing support for my campaign," said Mitt Romney. "This critical election will have powerful repercussions both at home and abroad. It will determine whether we stand with our allies against the rising tide of extremism, or if we continue to shrink away from our responsibilities. We cannot stand by as American influence diminishes abroad and others who do not share our values fill the gap. Now is a time for American leadership, and with the help of all my supporters, I will provide just that."
"I am proud to be running for the United States Senate with Governor Romney at the head of the ticket," said Ohio State Treasurer and U.S. Senate candidate Josh Mandel. "The country has been through some difficult years. Barack Obama's reckless borrowing is pushing the country in the direction of bankruptcy. We need a leader who will govern responsibly and not spend our tax dollars to gain political favor among special interest groups. We need a leader who will stand by Israel at a moment when it is imperiled as never before. Barack Obama has been a failed steward of the economy and an unreliable leader of America on the world stage. The time for change is overdue."
"I am proud to support Mitt Romney," said Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens. "At a time of domestic economic strife and tumult across the world, we need a strong hand in the White House. And that strong hand needs to have the experience and wisdom to turn things around at home and protect our interests and defend our allies abroad. President Obama has had nearly four years to turn things around. The evidence of his failures, both at home and overseas, is all around us. We need strength not weakness. We need leadership not drift. That's why I am working day and night to help elect Mitt Romney."
"When I look at the challenges we face, I know that the future of our country is a matter that transcends party loyalties," said businesswoman and philanthropist Susan Crown. "And there is no mistaking that the future of our country is on the line in this election. We are confronted with a choice between a president who has failed to turn around the economy and a challenger who excels in economic turnarounds. We are confronted with a choice between a president who has treated our allies, including the state of Israel, badly. And a challenger who wants America to stand tall with our friends. I stand with Mitt Romney. We can't afford four more years of empty promises and misguided policies."
Honorary Chairmen
Ohio State Treasurer and U.S. Senate Candidate Josh Mandel
Georgia Attorney General Sam Olens
Former U.S. Senator Richard Stone (D-FL) 
National Advisory Board
Josh Bolten
Charles Kopp
Wayne Berman
Susan Crown
Bob Diener
Adam B. Ross
Rabbi Shmuley Boteach
Joel Hoppenstein
Fred Karlinsky
Larry Levine
Dick Robinson
Eric Weissmann
Joshua Sharf
Dr. Jeffrey Feingold
Barbara Feingold
Barbara Amper
Bob Asher
Harold Beznos
David Edman
Jill Govberg Feinberg
Richard Horvitz
Steve Levy
Leora Levy
David Marshall
Lothar Mayer
Carlyn Mayer
Alan Miller
Ron Plotkin
Ambassador Ron Weiser
Jonathan Tratt
Jonathan Javitt
Ambassador Martin J. Silverstein
Rabbi E.B. "Bunny" Freedman
Michigan State Senator Roger Kahn
Shelley Taub
Barb Mandell
Evan Weiner
Robert Pilcowitz
Samantha Ravich
Daniel Fujita
Samuel Friedland
Dr. Judith Friedland
Commissioner Steven Abrams
Lyon "Lenny" Roth
Dr. Richard Rothman
Dr. Jeffrey Gunter
Commissioner Roger Wishner
Previous Members of Jewish Americans For Romney:
Honorary Chairmen
Congressman Eric Cantor (R-VA)
Former Governor Linda Lingle (R-HI)
Former Senator Norm Coleman (R-MN)
Former Senator Rudy Boschwitz (R-MN)
Adam Hasner, Florida
National Advisory Board
Evan Feigenbaum
Tevi Troy
Dan Senor
Dov Zakheim
Roger Zakheim
Eliot Cohen
Ambassador Eric Edelman
Ambassador Mitchell Reiss
Aaron Friedberg
Leon Aron
Phil Rosen
Sander Gerber
Lew Eisenberg
Eric Tanenblatt
Nick Muzin
Jeremy Katz
Barry Mannis
Ben Ginsberg
Victor Chaltiel
Fred Zeidman
Bruce Bialosky
Richard Heideman
Hon. Phyllis Greenberg Heideman
Ambassador Ned Siegel
Ambassador Mel Sembler
Stanley Tate
Ted Cutler
Ambassador Sam Fox
Bobby Schostak
Alan Kaufman
Ed Levy
Jay and Ann Davis
Marty Kogon
David Flaum
Cheryl Halpern
Reuven Hahn
Steve Friedman
Michael Menis
Ambassador Cliff Sobel
  