
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to sections 123 b. and 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(b), (d)) (the "Act"), the text of a proposed Protocol Amending the Agreement for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy signed at Washington on May 30, 1980. I am also pleased to transmit my written approval, authorization, and determination concerning the Protocol, and an unclassified Nuclear Proliferation Assessment Statement (NPAS) concerning the Protocol. (In accordance with section 123 of the Act, as amended by title XII of the Foreign Affairs Reform and Restructuring Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-277), a classified Annex to the NPAS, prepared by the Secretary of State in consultation with the Director of Central Intelligence, summarizing relevant classified information, will be submitted to the Congress separately.) The joint memorandum submitted to me by the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Energy and a letter from the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission stating the views of the Commission are also enclosed.
I am informed that the proposed Protocol has been negotiated to be in accordance with the Act and other applicable law, to meet all statutory requirements, and to advance the nonproliferation and other foreign policy interests of the United States.
The Protocol amends the Agreement for Cooperation Between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco Concerning Peaceful Uses of Nuclear Energy in two respects:
1. It extends the Agreement, which expired by its terms on May 16, 2001, for an additional period of 20 years, with a provision for automatic extensions thereafter in increments of 5 years each unless either Party gives timely notice to terminate the Agreement; and
2. It updates certain provisions of the Agreement relating to the physical protection of nuclear material subject to the Agreement.
As amended by the proposed Protocol, I am informed that the Agreement will continue to meet all requirements of U.S. law.
Morocco is in the early stages of developing a nuclear research program, with support from the United States and the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). The United States firm, General Atomics, is currently building the country's first reactor, a small (2 megawatt) TRIGA Mark II research reactor that will use lowenriched uranium fuel. General Atomics' completion of the project cannot occur without an Agreement for Cooperation in force.
Morocco is a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) and has an agreement with the IAEA for the application of full-scope safeguards to its nuclear program. Morocco is a signatory to (but has not yet ratified) the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material, which establishes international standards of physical protection for the storage and transport of nuclear material.
I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested agencies in reviewing the proposed Protocol and have determined that its performance will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common defense and security. Accordingly, I have approved the Protocol and authorized its execution and urge that the Congress give it favorable consideration.
This transmission shall constitute a submittal for purposes of both sections 123 b. and 123 d. of the Atomic Energy Act. My Administration is prepared to begin immediately the consultations with the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and House International Relations Committee as provided in section 123 b. Upon completion of the 30-day continuous session period provided for in section 123 b., the 60-day continuous session period provided for in section 123 d. shall commence.
GEORGE W. BUSH
The White House, October 24, 2001.
  