
    "Voters have a clear choice facing them in November on the future of health care. If President Obama is re-elected, Obamacare will drive millions of Americans from their employer-provided insurance, continue increasing health care costs for consumers, and raid Medicare of $716 billion. Mitt Romney will work — from day one — to repeal and replace this disastrous law with reforms that provide better care at lower costs." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Under President Obama, Health Care Costs Are Continuing To Climb — And Obamacare Will Only Make Things Worse For Millions Of Americans:
The Kaiser Foundation Reported That The Average Cost Of Family Health Care Premiums Have Increased From $12,680 To $15,745 — An Average Increase Of Over $3,000 Per Family. ("Employer Health Benefits, 2012 Annual Survey, Exhibit 6.4" The Kaiser Family Foundation, 2012)
Obamacare Has Made Health Care "Less Affordable" And Has Caused "Insurance Premiums To Rise." "At the moment, the new law is making health care slightly less affordable. Independent health care experts say the law has caused some insurance premiums to rise. As we wrote in October, the new law has caused about a 1 percent to 3 percent increase in health insurance premiums for employer-sponsored family plans because of requirements for increased benefits. Last year's premium increases cast even more doubt on another promise the president has made - that the health care law would 'lower premiums by up to $2,500 for a typical family per year.'" (D'Angelo Gore, "Promises, Promises," FactCheck.org, 1/4/12)
Obamacare Could Cause Millions Of Americans To Lose Their Employer-Provided Coverage. "A Congressional Budget Office report issued this week says that 3 million to 5 million people could move from employer-based health care plans to government-based programs as the Affordable Care Act takes effect. And in the worst-case scenario, it could be as many as 20 million." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," Politico, 3/16/12)


    President Obama's Pledge That Obamacare Will Allow Americans To Keep Their Own Health Care Plans "Isn't True" For Many Americans. "President Barack Obama promised over and over during the health care debate that 'if you like your health care plan, you can keep your health care plan.' It turns out that, for a lot of people, that isn't true." (David Nather, "Health Care Reform: 4 Inconvenient Truths," Politico, 3/16/12)
  

And In A Second Obama Term, Seniors Will Face Increasing Costs And Fewer Benefits Because Of Obamacare's Medicare Cuts:
According To The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare Cuts $716 Billion From Medicare. (Congressional Budget Office, Letter To Speaker John Boehner, 7/24/12)


    President Obama's Senior Campaign Aide Bragged That President Obama "Achieved" $700 Billion In "Cuts In Medicare." CUTTER: "Well, you know ask the wealthy to pay a little bit more. Cut waste from the government. Reform Medicare. More than $300 billion in savings from Medicare. On top of the savings we've already achieved. You know I heard Mitt Romney deride the $700 billion cuts in Medicare that the president achieved through health care reform." (CBS's "Face The Nation," 8/12/12)
  

Obamacare's Cuts Will Cause Enrollment In Medicare Advantage To "Plummet By About 50 Percent" And Leave Seniors With "Higher Out-Of-Pocket Costs." "In addition to flagging provider cuts as potentially unsustainable, the report [HHS] projected that reductions in payments to private Medicare Advantage plans would trigger an exodus from the popular alternative. Enrollment would plummet by about 50 percent. Seniors leaving the private plans would still have health insurance under traditional Medicare, but many might face higher out-of-pocket costs." (Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, "Report Says Health Care Will Cover More, Cost More," The Associated Press, 4/23/10)


    The Medicare Trustees Project These Cuts Will Drive 4 Million Seniors Out Of Medicare Advantage Plans By 2018. (Medicare Trustees Report, 4/23/12)
  

52 Percent Of Doctors Say Obamacare Will Compel Them To Close Or Significantly Restrict Their Practices To Medicare Patients. (Merritt Hawkins, "Health Reform and the Decline of Physician Private Practice," The Physicians Foundation, October 2010)
  