
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

General Casimir Pulaski's life was committed to the cause of freedom. Before coming to America in 1777, he fought bravely and tirelessly for the independence of his beloved Poland. Here, he devoted all his energy and skill to the American War of Independence. His personal contribution to the Revolutionary Army on the field of battle, his tactical innovations, and his creation of a highly effective corps of dragoons, known informally as the Polish Legion, won him the title: "Father of American Cavalry."
On October 11, 1779, General Pulaski gave his life in our struggle for freedom. He died from wounds suffered bravely in the battle of Savannah. Although he died before the goal of a free and independent America had been achieved, his heroic example has inspired Polish and American patriots for over two centuries. George Washington's words written to the Continental Congress in 1778 memorialize General Pulaski: "The Count's valor and active zeal on all occasions have done him great honor."
As we gratefully reflect on the life of this great champion of freedom, we are moved to salute all Americans of Polish descent, who from the settlement in Jamestown through the Revolutionary War and on to the present have contributed so greatly and so generously to the realization of the American dream. Generations of Polish Americans have left a lasting imprint on American life in every field of human endeavor: from science and the arts to politics, sports, and religion. Their achievements have enriched the lives of all Americans.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Friday, October 11, 1985, as General Pulaski Memorial Day, 1985, and I direct the appropriate Government officials to display the flag of the United States on all Government buildings on that day. In addition, I encourage the people of the United States to commemorate this occasion as appropriate throughout the land.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this first day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  