
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

If current projections prove accurate, the present global population of more than 5 billion will likely double by the year 2025. It may reach 14 billion by the end of the next century. In many areas of the world, particularly in less developed countries, populations are increasing without concomitant economic growth. In other, more developed nations, however, birthrates are so low that populations are not replacing themselves. The implications of both trends merit careful study and consideration -- as experience has clearly shown us, there is a significant relationship between demographic change, economic development, the use of resources, and environmental management.
The United States has long recognized that population growth, in and of itself, is a neutral phenomenon. As we noted during the 1984 International Conference on Population, because human beings are producers as well as consumers, population growth may be an asset or a liability depending on such factors as government economic policies, agricultural practices, and a nation's ability to put men and women to work. Demographic change can become problematic when a nation fails to anticipate or to accommodate growth. Increases in population can pose difficulties when the creation of housing and health facilities does not keep pace or when valuable resources such as arable land, forests, and water are used without regard to future needs. Population growth may also be viewed as a threat in countries where centralized economic planning and government price controls eliminate incentives for farmers and other workers to produce.
Many governments, private organizations, and concerned individuals around the world have been studying population trends and working to meet the challenges and opportunities those trends create. Over the years, the United States has been a leader in efforts to focus attention on population issues; to promote international cooperation; and to develop and implement population programs that are consistent with individual dignity and human rights. For example, in addition to supporting voluntary family planning activities, we have strived to promote environmental conservation and sustainable economic development in poor countries. We have also steadfastly advocated the political and economic freedom that is vital to the advancement of individuals and nations.
The United States believes that population programs must be truly voluntary, that they must not only recognize the rights and responsibilities of individuals and families but also respect their religious and cultural values. When population programs are conducted in accordance with this view, when they affirm and enhance the dignity and potential of the individual, they can and do promote the health of mothers and children, the stability of families, and, subsequently, the strength and well-being of entire nations.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 158, has designated the week of October 21 through October 27, 1990, as "World Population Awareness Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 21 through October 27, 1990, as World Population Awareness Week. I invite all Americans to observe this week with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  