
    After 'For All of America' Tour, 'Whiner in the White House' Will Begin This Week
MINNEAPOLIS, MN – Today, the Amy for America campaign announced a new TV ad in Iowa and New Hampshire. 'Whiner in the White House', which begins airing on broadcast and cable this week, highlights Senator Klobuchar's optimistic economic agenda, legislative achievements, and ability to unite Americans who are tired of the "whiner in the White House."
"As President, I won't govern by tweet," Senator Klobuchar says in the ad. "I'll lead with an optimistic economic agenda for all Americans. Rebuilding our infrastructure, lowering the cost of prescription drugs, investing in rural America. I have a proven record of getting things done. Together we can move forward, because what unites us is so much stronger than what divides us."
Last week, Klobuchar travelled across all of New Hampshire's 10 counties in 30 hours. The trip marked her 15th visit to the Granite State during her presidential campaign. Klobuchar then embarked on a bus tour across Iowa where she took her message to caucus-goers in a dozen Iowa counties, including many that Donald Trump won in 2016, like Washington, Keokuk, Louisa, and Dubuque Counties. During the tour, Klobuchar announced the endorsements of two Iowa legislators, State Senator Liz Mathis and State Representative Andy McKean, and she has earned the "support of more current and former legislators from Iowa than any other presidential candidate." The tour marked Klobuchar's 21st trip to Iowa since announcing her candidacy.
'Whiner in the White House' can be viewed here:

'Whiner in the White House' Transcript:
KLOBUCHAR: Americans are tired of having a whiner in the White House.
I'm Amy Klobuchar. As President, I won't govern by tweet. I'll lead with an optimistic economic agenda for all Americans.
Rebuilding our infrastructure, lowering the cost of prescription drugs, investing in rural America. I have a proven record of getting things done.
Together we can move forward, because what unites us is so much stronger than what divides us. That's why I approve this message.
  