
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Kathryn C. Davis of Maryland, to serve as Judge on the United States Court of Federal Claims.
Kathryn Davis is Senior Counsel in the Federal Programs Branch of the Department of Justice's Civil Division. During her tenure at the Justice Department, Ms. Davis has litigated some of the most significant cases implicating the interests of the United States. Ms. Davis also serves as a Professorial Lecturer in Law at The George Washington University Law School, where she teaches a course in legal research and writing. Before joining the Department of Justice, Ms. Davis was in private practice in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Ms. Davis earned her B.S. from Boston University and her J.D., cum laude, from Temple University Beasley School of Law.
Joshua M. Kindred of Alaska, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the District of Alaska.
Joshua Kindred is the Regional Solicitor for the Alaska Region of the Department of the Interior in Anchorage, Alaska. Before joining the Department of the Interior, Mr. Kindred was Environmental Counsel to the Alaska Oil and Gas Association and served as an Assistant District Attorney and Violent Unit Supervisor for the State of Alaska. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Kindred served as a law clerk to Chief Justice Paul De Muniz of the Supreme Court of the State of Oregon. Mr. Kindred earned his B.A. from the University of Alaska Anchorage and his J.D. from Willamette University College of Law, where he served as Editor-in-Chief of the Willamette Law Review.
Edward H. Meyers of Maryland, to serve as Judge on the United States Court of Federal Claims.
Edward Meyers is a Partner at Stein Mitchell Beato & Missner LLP in Washington, D.C., where his practice focuses on litigating bid protests, breach of contract disputes, and copyright infringement matters. Before joining Stein Mitchell in 2012, Mr. Meyers was in private practice at Kirkland & Ellis LLP. Upon graduation from law school, Mr. Meyers served as a law clerk to Judge Loren A. Smith of the United States Court of Federal Claims. Mr. Meyers earned his B.A. from Vanderbilt University and his J.D., summa cum laude, from The Catholic University of America, Columbus School of Law, where he served as an Associate Editor of The Catholic University Law Review.
Jennifer P. Togliatti of Nevada, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the District of Nevada.
Jennifer Togliatti currently serves as a Senior Judge on the Nevada District Court and as a private mediator and arbitrator for complex civil litigation cases and mass torts. Judge Togliatti spent nearly two decades as a judge on Nevada's Eighth Judicial District Court, serving as Chief Judge from 2011 to 2014, and as a Las Vegas Justice Court Judge before that. Before taking the bench in 1998, Judge Togliatti served as a Deputy District Attorney for Clark County, Nevada. Judge Togliatti earned her B.S. from the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, and her J.D. from the California Western School of Law.
  