
    
Washington's addiction to irresponsible spending is the result not of necessity but of a stubborn resistance to reform. Our $19 trillion debt is not just a problem for government; it is a problem for the American people. It is hurting our economy today and will shackle future generations.
Our $19 trillion debt amounts to over $150,000 per taxpayer. Our families and our children are on the hook for this. The bill might not come in the mail, but if we do nothing to change course, it will come in the form of higher taxes, cuts to our safety net, fewer jobs, and fewer opportunities to achieve the American Dream.
For those reasons, the federal government needs to cut its spending, now.
As a Senator, Marco has fought to restrain spending to protect taxpayers: He successfully blocked the massive taxpayer-funded insurance bailouts in ObamaCare and voted against budget bills filled with wasteful spending and crony capitalist giveaways. He has been named a Taxpayer Super Hero by the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste and a Taxpayers' Friend by the National Taxpayers Union.
Some of Marco's ideas to get spending under control:

Fight for a Balanced Budget Amendment and force Washington to live within its means without raising taxes
Repeal ObamaCare and cut trillions in spending on the job-destroying law
Push for line-item veto authority to cut wasteful spending
Permanently ban pork-barrel earmarks
Reduce the size of the federal workforce in Washington
Prevent massive, irresponsible spending bills
Allow states to use wasteful federal funds to pay down the national debt
Oppose corporate welfare like the New Deal-era Export-Import Bank
Reform budget rules to provide taxpayers with the true costs of government spending and the benefits of pro-growth policies
Reform and save Medicare and Social Security for future generations without impacting those in or near retirement

Op-Eds & Speeches
Marco on how to let states refund unused spending to pay down the national debt. (National Review, March 16, 2015)
  