
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Simon Charles Gros, of New Jersey, to be Assistant Secretary of Transportation (Governmental Affairs). Mr. Gros currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs at the Department of Transportation. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Staff of the Department of Transportation. Earlier in his career, he served as Associate Director and Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary for Government Affairs at the Department of Transportation. Mr. Gros received his bachelor's degree from the University of Maryland. He received his JM and JD from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate Deborah K. Jones, of New Mexico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Kuwait. Ms. Jones, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as the Consul General and Principal Officer in the United States Consulate General in Istanbul. Prior to this, she served as a Member of the Foreign Service Board of Examiners at the Department of State. Earlier in her career, she served as Country Director in the Office of Arabian Peninsula Affairs in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at the Department of State. Ms. Jones received her bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University and her master's degree from the National Defense University.
The President intends to nominate Patrick Francis Kennedy, of Illinois, to be Under Secretary of State (Management). Mr. Kennedy, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Director of Management Policy at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Director of Management at the Office of the Director of National Intelligence. Earlier in his career, he served as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations for Management and Reform. Mr. Kennedy received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Joseph J. Murin, of Pennsylvania, to be President of the Government National Mortgage Association. Mr. Murin previously served as President and Managing Partner of the Mortgage Settlement Network, LLC. Prior to this, he served as Chief Executive Officer of the Basis100 Corporation. Earlier in his career, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Lender's Service, Inc. Mr. Murin received his bachelor's degree from National-Louis University.
  