
    "Today, I stand before you, as the President of the United States, to tell you that my Administration will always honor, cherish, and support the men and women in blue." --President Donald J. Trump
SUPPORTING LAW ENFORCEMENT: President Trump is supporting law enforcement and ensuring they have the tools, training, and information they need to protect our communities. 

President Trump is establishing a new executive Commission on Law Enforcement and the Administration of Justice – the first commission on law enforcement in half a century.

The Commission will study key issues facing law enforcement – like substance abuse, homelessness, and mental illness.
The Commission will look at best practices for recruiting, training, and supporting law enforcement officers.
A report and recommendations will be delivered to the President within a year.


The President has made hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of surplus military equipment available to local law enforcement.
Shortly after taking office, President Trump signed an Executive Order to help prevent violence against law enforcement officers at the Federal, State, Tribal, and local level.

CREATING SAFER COMMUNITIES: President Trump has committed his Administration to combating crime and creating safer communities for all Americans.

The Trump Administration revitalized Project Safe Neighborhoods to help reduce violent crime in communities all around the country.
The Department of Justice charged a record number of violent crime defendants in fiscal year (FY) 2018.
The President has stepped up efforts to stop crime and drugs from flooding across our border.

Customs and Border Protection prevented thousands of criminals from entering our communities and seized over 600,000 pounds of illegal drugs at the southern border.


 President Trump's approach is smart on crime, understanding that helping former offenders return to society as productive citizens creates safer communities.

COMBATING CRIME: Thanks to the President's efforts, crime rates in the United States are falling and America's communities are safer.

The violent crime rate in America has fallen for two consecutive years under President Trump, dropping 4.6 percent since 2016.

Violent crime spiked in the two years prior to President Trump taking office.


The murder rate has declined for two consecutive years under President Trump – after increasing in each of the prior two years.

The murder rate has decreased by 7 percent since President Trump took office.


The number of robberies fell by more than 50,000 from 2016 to 2018 nationwide.
The number of property crimes is down, experiencing a 9 percent drop since 2016.

There were 286,000 fewer burglaries in 2018 than 2016.



  