
    "Amy Is the Right Person to Unite Our Party, Defeat Donald Trump and Make Meaningful Change as President"
DES MOINES, IA — Roxanne Conlin, former U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa and one of the most prominent Democrats in the Hawkeye state, today endorsed U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for president. Conlin's endorsement, which was sought by a number of campaigns, comes on the eve of the Iowa Democratic Party's Liberty and Justice Celebration in Des Moines, where Senator Klobuchar is set to speak.
Conlin, an Iowa native and past Democratic nominee for governor and U.S. Senate, also served as the first female president of the Association of Trial Lawyers of America. She cited Klobuchar's extensive record as one of the nation's most effective legislators in announcing her support.
"Amy Klobuchar's vision, values and lengthy record as one of the most effective members of the U.S. Senate sets her apart from other candidates for the Democratic nomination," said former U.S. Attorney Roxanne Conlin. "I've met with many of the candidates in recent months and studied their records and positions on the issues. Given her wealth of experience, I am convinced that Amy is the right person to unite our party, defeat Donald Trump and make meaningful change as president. I am proud to endorse her and look forward to campaigning with her in the weeks and months leading up to the Iowa Caucuses."
Conlin served as Assistant Attorney General for Iowa from 1969 until 1976, where she served as head of the Iowa Civil Rights section. In 1977, she became one of the first two women to ever be appointed as a U.S. Attorney. She was the Iowa Democratic Party's nominee for Governor in 1982 and the nominee for U.S. Senate in 2010.
Throughout her lengthy and distinguished legal career, Conlin has established herself as a fervent advocate for working people, the most recent example being her representation of Iowa Workers' Compensation Commissioner Chris Godfrey, who sued former Iowa Gov. Terry Branstad over workplace discrimination. In July, a jury awarded Godfrey $1.5 million after finding that Branstad and a staffer discriminated against Godfrey because he is gay and retaliated against him by cutting his salary by $40,000 in 2011.
Conlin joins a long and growing list of other activists, community leaders and elected officials who have endorsed Klobuchar in recent weeks. Klobuchar currently has the support of 13 current and former Iowa legislators, more than any other candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination.
The Minnesota Senator is currently on her 22nd visit to Iowa since announcing her candidacy for president. To date, she has visited 56 of the state's 99 counties and has received donations from all 99.
  