
    
Excerpts from McCain-Palin 2008 Conference Call with Senator John Warner (R-VA):
"Welcome, to my colleague, Senator Obama. I've had an opportunity to get to know him and work with him through the years in the United States Senate. But, he has arrived on territory that I've been on for about a half century, one way or another, and I know, and really respect the people in that [Tidewater] region. It's from that region that I've got some of my strongest marches as I've been elected five times to the United States Senate.
"I want to talk to him very seriously about, when he discusses this question of the economics today -- it is fundamental 101... that if you raise taxes, you are putting a tourniquet on the economy. And his proposal just simply will not help this situation we've got out there now by raising taxes. I just wish I could look him square in the eye at this point in time.
"Secondly, I was kind of disturbed about some of his statements with regard to Afghanistan. I visited there at the cost of my services as Chairman of the Armed Services Committee ... he's just off the base on this question the loss of life in Afghanistan. ... We are experiencing loss of life between the NATO and U.S. troops. We are fighting a vigorous campaign of insurgency in that area, and I do not believe any statistic supports the fact that we are killing more civilians who are caught up in this combat, than the insurgents. I speak very modestly, but I have had many years of experience with the military, beginning in World War II when I was a young sailor and, incidentally, popping up my white hat along Brandy St. there in Norfolk once or twice. Look, folks, war is a tough and dirty business. Unfortunately innocent civilians do get killed. But in our operations [in Afghanistan] we've got highly technical equipment, particularly our drones and so forth. We are not in any way targeting civilians. Sometimes the insurgents and the leadership are co-mingled with the civilians, and as precisely as we try to direct this ordinance, regrettably, there are civilians killed. But on the whole, the death toll of the insurgents far exceeds that of civilians."
Read the Entire Article
  