
    NASHVILLE, Tenn. — Gov. Perry today announced his Tennessee campaign leadership team, naming Lt. Gov. Ron Ramsey state campaign chairman, former California Lt. Gov. Mike Curb honorary campaign chairman and Stephen Smith state finance chairman. He also named his state finance leadership team.
"To get our country working again, we need strong leadership," said Gov. Perry. "Mike, Ron, and Steve are well-respected and proven leaders who share my vision for a stronger America with more jobs, more freedom and less government intrusion in the lives of our citizens. With their help, we will run a spirited campaign in Tennessee, and in 2012 we'll get America working again."
Mike Curb is the former Lt. Gov. of California and past national finance chairman for the Republican National Committee. He is owner of Curb Records, one of the most successful independent record companies in the world. As a prominent songwriter and producer, Curb has been recognized with several prestigious awards including Producer of the Year by Billboard in 1972, and Country Music Label of the Year in 2001 by leading trade magazines. He is chair of the Mike Curb Foundation, which supports music education and restoration efforts of historic music locations, and is responsible for the development of art and entertainment centers at Vanderbilt and Belmont Universities. In 2007, Curb was named Nashvillian of the Year.
Ron Ramsey is Lt. Gov. and Senate Speaker of the State of Tennessee, the first Republican to be elected Senate Speaker in 140 years and the longest serving Republican Senate Speaker in Tennessee history. Ramsey previously served two terms in the Tennessee House of Representatives and was elected to the State Senate in 1996, and helped achieve GOP majority in the chamber in 2007. In 2008, Lt. Gov. Ramsey served as chairman of the Tennessee delegation to the Republican National Convention and in 2009, served as national chairman of the Republican Lt. Governor's Association. Additionally, Ramsey is owner of Ron Ramsey and Associates, a real estate and auction company, and graduated from East Tennessee State University.
Stephen Smith is chairman of Haury and Smith Contractors, Inc., a 55-year-old building and development company. He formerly served as national finance co-chair for Sen. Lamar Alexander's 1996 and 2000 presidential campaigns, and is one of three Tennesseans to achieve Super Ranger status in President George W. Bush's 2004 campaign. He was also national finance chairman for Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist's leadership political action committee, VOLPAC, and served as finance chairman for Sen. Lamar Alexander's 2008 reelection campaign. Mr. Smith attended Middle Tennessee State University, where he serves on the Blue Raider Athletic Association's board of directors and President's Council.
Gov. Perry also named the following individuals to lead his Tennessee finance team:
Dr. Larry Bates
Tom Beasley, former Tennessee GOP Chairman
Bob Davis, former Tennessee GOP Chairman
Howard "Butch" Eley
John Elkington
James Gregory
JR Hand
Bill Henson
Willis Johnson
Monty Lankford
Albert McCall
Dr. Paul and Carla McCombs
Andy Miller
Dick Powell
Reese Smith
Howard Wall, former Rutherford County GOP Chairman
Henny Weisinger
Brad Williams
  