
    
  For Small Businesses, Obamacare Means Higher Taxes, Fewer Jobs, And More Regulation

Obamacare Is Impeding Hiring At Businesses Across The Nation — Resulting In Fewer Good-Paying Jobs For American Workers:
Nearly Three-Quarters Of Small-Business Owners Blame Obamacare For Hurting Job Creation. "As part of the explanation for the general economic pessimism, 78 percent of small businesses believe that taxation, regulation and legislation from Washington make it harder for businesses to hire more employees — and 74 percent blame the recent health care reforms passed by the Obama administration for creating an impediment to job creation." (Tim Mak, "Chamber Poll: Small Biz Blames D.C.," Politico, 1/18/12)


    CNBC Headline: "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest" (CNBC, 6/28/12)
  

Many Business Owners Are Concerned With Increasing Their "Number Of Employees If It Means They Will Have To Take On More Health-Care Costs." "That concern, that businesses will not increase the number of employees if it means they will have to take on more health-care costs, is top of mind for many business owners." (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
International Franchise Association's Steve Caldeira: "The Impending Costs Of Health Care Do Not Give Business Owners Confidence To Open That Extra Store Or To Hire More People..." "'This decision sustains the uncertainty they currently have,' says Steve Caldeira, president and CEO of the International Franchise Association. 'The impending costs of health care do not give business owners confidence to open that extra store or to hire more people and create the economic output our country needs.'" (Patricia Orsini, "Small Business On Obamacare: No Reason To Hire Or Invest," CNBC, 6/28/12)
And Obamacare's New Medical Device Tax Will Drive Tens Of Thousands Of Jobs Overseas — And Is Killing Jobs In America Today:
Obamacare Could Cause Businesses In The Medical Device Industry To Shift Tens Of Thousands Of Jobs Overseas. "The medical device industry says it could lose 10 percent of its U.S. workforce because of a tax created by healthcare reform. The Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) released a report Wednesday that says device-makers might ship 43,000 jobs overseas once the tax takes effect in 2013." (Sam Baker, "Device-Makers Say Tax Will Cost 43,000 US Jobs," The Hill, 9/7/11)
Former Sen. Evan Bayh (D-IN): The Tax "Threatens Thousands Of American Jobs And Our Global Competitiveness ... [And] Will Also Stifle Critical Medical Innovation In The Industry." "The Supreme Court decision in June upholding the Affordable Care Act leaves in place a tax on medical devices that threatens thousands of American jobs and our global competitiveness. It will also stifle critical medical innovation in the industry that gave us defibrillators, pacemakers, artificial joints, stents, chemotherapy delivery systems and almost every device we depend on to save lives. ... Many U.S. device companies, in response, have already announced layoffs, canceled plans for domestic expansion and slashed research-and-development budgets." (Evan Bayh, Op-Ed, "ObamaCare's Tax Raid On Medical Devices," The Wall Street Journal, 9/27/12)
In September 2012, Welch Allyn Announced It Would Cut Nearly 300 Jobs Because Of Obamacare's Medical Device Tax. "The privately held company will eliminate 10 percent of its global workforce, or about 275 jobs, as part of the move. Welch Allyn does not disclosed annual sales figures, though in 2009 disclosed that annual revenues topped $600 million. New health-care reform laws -- specifically a planned medical device tax — prompted the sweeping changes, the company said in a news release." (Molly Young, "Welch Allyn Will Power Down Beaverton Manufacturing, Cut 10 Percent Of Global Workforce," The Oregonian, 9/11/12)
  