
    By virtue of the authority vested in me by sections 1301 and 3301 of title 5 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is hereby ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. As used in this order, "cooperative education" describes a program which provides for a formally arranged schedule of periods of attendance at an institution of higher learning combined with periods of study-related work in a Federal agency under a Schedule B appointment. Together, the periods of work and study satisfy requirements for a bachelor's degree and provide experience necessary for a career or career-conditional appointment to an administrative, professional, or technical position in the Federal Government upon the student's graduation.
SEC. 2. Under this order, the appointment of a cooperative education student under Schedule B of the civil service rules may be converted noncompetitively to a career-conditional or career appointment if the student:
(1) has completed within the preceding 90 days a cooperative education program that meets the provisions of this order;
(2) has satisfied all requirements leading to the award of a bachelor's degree by the college or university in which the student completed his or her cooperative education curriculum;
(3) is recommended for such appointment by the employing agency; and,
(4) satisfies all other applicable requirements and conditions prescribed by the Civil Service Commission for career and career-conditional employment.
SEC. 3. The Civil Service Commission shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this order and to provide for the coordination of the planning, implementation, and evaluation of employment of cooperative education students throughout the Government. The regulations shall provide for the periodic evaluation of the work of each cooperative education student and shall require that continuation in the program be dependent upon a finding of satisfactory performance.
SEC. 4. Executive Order No. 11202 of March 5, 1965, iv hereby revoked.
SEC. 5. This order shall become effective immediately.
GERALD R. FORD
The White House,
October 7, 1974.
  