
    McLean, VA - Senator Fred Thompson announced today that Jack Faris, former President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Federation of Independent Businesses, will be the National Chairman of "Small Business Leaders for Fred Thompson."
"I am excited to be supporting Senator Thompson, an old friend and fellow Tennessean, because he understands the role that small businesses play in our economy. Senator Thompson's record in the U.S. Senate speaks for itself, long a supporter of lower taxes, which allow Americans to invest more in our economy, and a strong advocate for increased access and flexibility in health care and entitlement reform," said Jack Faris.
Faris became a nationally-recognized political advocate when the National Federation of Independent Businesses and its members fought against government-mandated healthcare coverage in 1993. At that time, The New York Times described Faris as 'silver-haired and acid-tongued,' as he spoke out on behalf of small-business owners. Faris also led the battle to repeal the death tax in 1997. As a leading tax-reform advocate, Faris was named by the Bush Administration as a delegate to the 2002 Economic Forum.
Appointed by President George W. Bush, Faris serves on the President's Export Council. In this capacity, he traveled with the Council and the Secretary of Commerce to China to meet with China's top leadership. Mr. Faris served on the National Commission on Economic Growth & Tax Reform (The Kemp Commission) and chaired the Steering Committee of the International Small Business Council.
"When I joined NFIB, I jumped in and battled two of the greatest issues that entrepreneurs have to contend with, health care and taxes," continued Faris. "In 1994, we helped defeat Hillary Clinton's health care plan and in 1997, we led the fight to repeal the Death Tax. Knowing the challenges that small businesspeople are facing are on the rise, it is important that we elect Senator Fred Thompson as our next President."
"Our campaign is very pleased to have Jack on board. Entrepreneurs and small business owners, the engines that drive our economic growth, know Jack, and understand that Senator Thompson has stood with them in the past and will work for a strong economy as President," stated Bill Lacy, Senator Thompson's campaign manager.
  