
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Macon, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Georgia families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Georgia the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
The President's Paycheck Protection Program provided over $14.6 billion worth of loans to more than 174,000 businesses and saved 1.5 million jobs.
Over 5 million Georgians received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $8.4 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing Georgia with up to $4.1 billion in assistance to deal with the outbreak and more than $792 million in relief so far to 3,888 health care providers in the state.

Georgia businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership:

President Trump's built a stronger economy for Georgia workers and businesses with pro-growth policies, middle-class tax cuts, and smart deregulation, and he is doing it again.
Over the last four months, Georgia added back 312,500 jobs following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus.
Georgia added 236,000 new jobs in the first three years of the Trump Administration, including 9,700 new manufacturing jobs.
In February, Georgia's unemployment rate was just 3.1%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to create 36,900 new Georgia jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 260 Georgia communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America-First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Georgia's economy:

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Georgia's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports more than $10.2 billion worth of goods to Canada and Mexico each year.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports more than 387,000 jobs in the state, including 22,500 manufacturing jobs.
The USMCA will boost Georgia's agricultural exports, helping the state's farmers and agriculture producers.
President Trump is defending Georgia farmers and agricultural producers from China by providing $312 million in direct USDA payments to offset the damage of China's tariffs.

But Joe Biden's disastrous agenda will decimate Georgia's recovering economy and undo President Trump's policies that help Georgians the most:

The terrible trade deals that Joe Biden supported throughout his 44 years in office killed Georgia jobs.

Georgia lost 18,300 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden voted for.
Georgia lost 129,500 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 103,100 Georgia jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies would devastate Georgia workers and businesses.

The oil, natural gas, and coal industries support nearly 146,000 Georgia jobs and contribute more than $14.3 billion annually to the state's economy each year.
43 percent of Georgia homes are heated by natural gas, propane, or fuel oil, all energy sources that Joe Biden wants to eliminate.


Biden's government-run health care proposal endangers the private health insurance thatover 5.5 million Georgians rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 43 of Georgia's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.
Meanwhile, President Trump is fighting to give Georgians the best health care in the world at lower prices. In 2020, the average Obamacare premium in Florida decreased.


Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. Nearly 73,000 students are currently enrolled inover 93 charter schools in the state.

  