
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Over the past decade, Americans have become increasingly aware of the accomplishments and the potential of the developmentally disabled. Nowhere has this become more evident than in the changed attitudes and perceptions regarding Down Syndrome.
Just a few short years ago, this condition carried with it the stigma of hopeless mental retardation. There were few options available other than institutionalization or other forms of custodial care. Today, great progress has been made on all fronts. Through advances in medical science, the basis for the condition has been uncovered, raising hopes for eventual prevention. Already, treatment can minimize the effects of the condition and increase the life span of people with Down Syndrome.
Through the efforts of concerned physicians, teachers, and parent groups, such as the National Down Syndrome Congress, programs are being put into place to assure access to appropriate medical treatment, education, rehabilitation, and employment. Such programs can have a dramatic impact on the lives of those with this disorder, respecting their intrinsic worth as individuals and maximizing the contributions they can make to society. These efforts include developing special education classes within the context of mainstream school programs; providing vocational training in preparation for competitive employment in the work force; and preparing young adults with Down Syndrome for independent living.
In addition, parents of babies with Down Syndrome are receiving the education and support they need to understand this condition and acquire new hope for the future of their children. We must work together to increase the awareness of the American public as a whole to the true nature of this condition and dispel the stubborn myths about the degree to which it is disabling.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 40, has designated the month of October 1985 as "National Down Syndrome Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month.
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of October 1985 as National Down Syndrome Month. I invite all concerned citizens, agencies and organizations to unite during October with appropriate observances and activities directed toward resolution of the condition of Down Syndrome and toward assisting affected individuals and their families to enjoy to the fullest the blessings of life.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and tenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  