
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Illegal drug use costs the United States billions of dollars each year in terms of health care demands and lost economic productivity. Far more disturbing, however, is its daily toll in terms of human lives disrupted and destroyed. Those costs are immeasurable.
Former addicts, families terrified by neighborhood violence, law enforcement officials and emergency medical personnel -- all can describe the grave consequences of illicit drug use. Affecting individuals and families of every region, every race, every age, and every walk of life, illicit drug use undermines the very foundation of our society.
Fortunately, however, we have made important strides in the fight against illegal drug use. Tougher law enforcement and escalated interdiction efforts, as well as eduction, prevention, and treatment programs in both the pbulic and private sectors, have begun to prove effective. In many parts of the United States today cocaine is harder to find, more expensive, and less pure than it was one year ago. The operations of a number of drug cartels have been disrupted. Surveys and other research indicators show that attitudes toward illicit drug use, including casual use, are also changing for the better. More and more Americans are refusing to tolerate in their communities illegal drugs and the insidious profiteers who deal them. More and more Americans agree that there is no safe use of illegal drugs. Most important, perhaps, more and more youngsters in this country are beginning to recognize that experimenting with drugs isn't cool, that drugs can kill.
While we have made welcome the progress in the war on drugs -- thanks to the creative and determined efforts of law enforcement personnel, parents, educators, and other concerned individuals -- we still have much work to do. The National Institute on Drug Abuse reports that as many as 14.5 million Americans age 12 and over currently use illicit drugs. Seventy percent of all illegal drug users are employed -- a percentage that underscores the threat drugs post to the strength and productivity of American business and industry.
During the past several years, the National Federation of Parents for Drug-Free Youth has encouraged the observance of a "National Red Ribbon Week for a Drug-Free America." Millions of Americans -- including members of partents' groups, civic organizations, and business associations across the country -- take part in this important public education campaign. The red ribbon signifies our refusal to tolerate the use of illicit drugs and the use of alcohol by underaged youth. By wearing or displaying this bright symbol, we express our personal resolve and collective determination to help eliminate the scourge of drugs.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 346, has designated the week of October 20 through October 28, 1990, as "National Red Ribbon Week for A Drug-Free America" and has authroized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 20 through October 28, 1990, as National Red Ribbon Week for a Drug-Free America. I call upon all Americans to observe this week by supporting community drug and alcohol abuse prevention efforts. I also encourage every American to wear a red ribbon during this week as an expression of his or her commitment to a healthy, drug-free lifestyle.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  