
    Pool Reports by Elizabeth Crisp, Newsweek 



Sent:
Reports:




October 2, 202108:11

WH in town pool report 1 
Good morning from the White House!
Pooler has been covid tested and we are awaiting POTUS departure for Delaware at 9 am.
It's clear skies and about 56 degrees at the White House this morning, with promises of warmer temps this afternoon.
Will update with any news.
--liz



October 2, 202108:50

WH in town pool report 2
?Seems we've had a short delay on POTUS departure this morning. Gather time pushed back 15 minutes to 9 a.m.--when he was originally supposed to depart, so will be a little later than that but no formal update on departure time.
Will update with anything of note from departure.
--liz



October 2, 202109:29

WH in town pool report 3
POTUS exited the White House at about 9:05 am.
He briefly spoke to reporters. In an upbeat mood. Carrying a cup of coffee and a folded newspaper in his arm. Wearing a light blue jacket and striped button-up shirt.
Pooler struggled to hear over the sound of Marine One going in the background so please check full transcript but some excerpts:
On the infra/reconciliation logjam.
"There is no reason why both bills can't pass."
He noted that both poll very well.
"There's nothing in these pieces of legislation that is radical."
"I believe I can get this done."
On the standoff:
"Everybody is frustrated. That's part of government, being frustrated."
He said he plans to travel to promote his agenda in the coming week. He said he has been asked why he wasn't already doing more of that but said things like Hurricane Ida, floods, etc needed his attention.
"A lot was going on." "I'm gonna try to sell what I think the American people want."
On frustration: "I'm a realist. I was in the Senate for years. I know how legislation gets done."
He talked for about 5 minutes and then boarded Marine One.




 
Pool Reports below by Ken Thomas, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




October 2, 202110:07

Travel pool report #1 - Arrival at DANG
?Good Saturday morning from Delaware, where the temperature is 63 degrees F under sunny skies. Classic college football weather.
President Biden landed aboard Marine One at the Delaware Air National Guard base at 9:58 a.m. ET. The president stopped briefly at the front of the helicopter to speak to the pilot and then was greeted on the Tarmac by Col. Lynn K. Robinson, Jr., 166th Airlift Wing Director of Staff.
The president did not stop to take questions from the pool, which was at a considerable distance from his black Chevy Suburban SUV. (The pool received Covid-19 tests this morning in D.C.)
Traveling with the president to Wilmington, per the White House:
*Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
*Daleep Singh, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council
*Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
The motorcade departed the airport at 10:04 a.m. We are now rolling in Wilmington.



October 2, 202110:10

Travel pool report #2 - Psaki statement
White House press secretary Jen Psaki issued the following statement:
As the President made clear yesterday during his meeting with the House Democratic Caucus, the American people are relying on Congress to get both the bipartisan infrastructure bill and the Build Back Better plan done. These bold proposals will create millions of good-paying union jobs, make overdue investments in our nation’s infrastructure, lower the cost of childcare, eldercare and education, and take essential steps to address the climate crisis. He left the meeting yesterday with the firm belief that there was a shared commitment from across the Democratic Caucus to deliver for the American people.
The President and his team will continue close engagement with Members of both the House and the Senate through the weekend. And he looks forward to not only welcoming Members to the White House next week, but also traveling the country to make the case for his bold and ambitious agenda.



October 2, 202110:21

Travel pool report #3 - Wilmington
After an uneventful 11 minute drive, President Biden's motorcade arrived at his Wilmington home at 10:15 a.m.
The pool is now holding near his residence.



October 2, 202115:04

Travel pool report #4 - Departing residence
President Biden's motorcade departed his Wilmington residence at 3:01 p.m. ET. The press pool bus joined up with the motorcade and we are now rolling, destination TBD.



October 2, 202115:21

Travel pool report #5 - Golf
At 3:10 p.m., President Biden's motorcade arrived at the Fieldstone Golf Club, where he will be playing golf on a sunny afternoon here, with temperatures at 77 degrees F. The motorcade pulled onto the club's grounds and stopped briefly about 85 yards from the first hole (h/t CNN's Jason Hoffman.)
We will be holding nearby; your pooler has asked for the president's golf partners.



October 2, 202116:21

Travel pool report #6 - Golf partners
President Biden is playing golf today at Fieldstone Golf Club with Steve Ricchetti and Ron Olivere, the White House said.
(Mr. Ricchetti is the counselor to the president and a top White House adviser on negotiations with Congress over the White House legislative agenda. Mr. Olivere is the father-in-law of the president's late son, Beau Biden.)



October 2, 202117:40
Travel pool report #7 - Leaving the golf course
President Biden's motorcade departed Fieldstone Golf Club at 5:38 p.m. We have joined the motorcade and are rolling in the Greenville area.



October 2, 202117:50
Travel pool report #8 - Home and lid
President Biden's motorcade pulled into his Wilmington home at 5:47 p.m. after an uneventful ride from the golf course.
The White House has declared a lid. Have a great night.




  