
    It's time to give American families quality, reliable, affordable healthcare — and that's what we are working very hard to do. And we'll get it done.President Donald J. Trump
LOWERING HEALTHCARE PREMIUMS: Americans will see lower average individual market premiums on the Federal health insurance exchange in 2019. 

President Trump has already opened up affordable options outside of Obamacare and restored freedom by signing legislation that eliminated the individual mandate penalty.
Today, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced that the average premium for Obamacare plans on the Federal exchange will drop by 1.5 percent in 2019.

This marks the only average premium decline since Obamacare took effect in 2014.
Many States will see rates drop more substantially, including a 26 percent drop in Tennessee and 16 percent drop in Pennsylvania.
The change in rates in most States represents a dramatic departure from the double-digit premium increases Americans experienced in recent years.


Americans will see greater insurer participation in 2019 compared to previous years.

There will be 23 new insurers in 2019 and 29 insurers are expanding their service area.
The share of counties on the Federal exchange with only one insurer will drop from 56 percent in 2018 to 39 percent in 2019.
Only four States will have only one insurer in 2019, compared to ten in 2018.



EXPANDING OPTIONS AND DROPPING PRICES: President Trump is working to improve healthcare for Americans by expanding health coverage options and reining in drug prices.

The Trump Administration has worked to increase options for consumers through expanded short-term, limited-duration insurance plans and expanded Association Health Plans.

Short-term, limited-duration plans are not subject to burdensome Obamacare rules and are projected to be 50 to 80 percent more affordable than Obamacare plans.
Through expanded Association Health Plans, President Trump has made it easier for employers to join together to offer more affordable coverage to their workers.


President Trump has released a blueprint to drive down drug prices for American patients.

As a result, 15 drug manufacturers have already announced price freezes, reductions, and rollbacks.



IMPROVING INSURANCE MARKETS: President Donald J. Trump's policies are helping to remedy the chaos caused by Obamacare.

Since taking office, President Trump has made it a priority to alleviate the burden placed on Americans by the failures of Obamacare, in part by working more closely with States.

In 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order to help minimize the financial burden felt by American households due to Obamacare.


Premium reductions on Federal exchanges and increased insurer participation are encouraging signs after years of rising premiums and limited choices.

Before the President took office, the average individual market premiums more than doubled, from $2,784 in 2013 to $5,712 in 2017 – a 105 percent increase.


Obamacare left millions with no affordable choices as it severely restricted the short-term, limited-duration market and left more than half of all counties with only one insurer.

  