
    Des Moines, IA -- The Obama Campaign announced 11 press conferences happening TODAY across Iowa to mark the anniversary of Congress' vote to authorize the invasion of Iraq. Five years ago this week, members of Congress authorized and enabled the war in Iraq by voting to give George Bush a blank check to wage war. This vote came less than two weeks after Barack Obama spoke to 3,000 Americans in downtown Chicago and laid out his clear opposition to invading Iraq.
"This war was planned by Dick Cheney and Donald Rumsfeld, two men with some of the longest resumes in Washington. Five years ago today, many other politicians in Congress relying on their Washington experience followed the conventional political thinking and voted in favor of this ill-advised, ill-conceived war," veteran Bob Sprengeler of Cedar Rapids said. "Drawing on his own experience and judgment, Barack Obama stood up and said '˜no' to the war before the vote in Congress and before it was popular to do so. He demonstrated that he's got the right experience and right judgment to be our next Commander in Chief."
Iowans and veterans across the state will also unveil a post-card writing campaign to call on Senator Grassley to join Senator Obama's bipartisan coalition to end the war in Iraq. On Saturday October 13, thousands of Obama supporters will go door-to-door to share Senator Obama's vision to turn the page in Iraq during a nationwide "Canvass for Change." Participants will distribute post-cards urging Grassley to join Obama's bipartisan coalition and will talk with Iowans about Obama's movement to change the way Washington works and to end the failed policies in Iraq.
Press conference details below:
TODAY, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 11th
Des Moines
Iowa State Capitol, New West Capitol Terrace (West of E. 9th St between E. Grand and E. Walnut.)
Des Moines, IA
Program begins: 12:30 PM
Cedar Rapids
Obama for America Office
1420 1st Avenue NE, Room 105
Cedar Rapids, IA
Program begins: 2:00 PM
Iowa City
Obama for America Office
393 East College Street
Iowa City, IA
Program begins: 11:00 AM
Cedar Valley
Obama for America Office
4807 University Ave.
Cedar Valley, IA
Program begins: 2:30 PM
Burlington
Memorial Auditorium
200 N Front St
Burlington, IA
Program begins: 12:30 PM
Davenport
Obama for America
3546 North Brady Street
Davenport, IA
Program begins: 12:00 PM
Dubuque
Obama for America Office
219 W. 9th St.
Dubuque, IA
Program begins: 12:00 PM
Council Bluffs
Public Library
400 Willow Ave
Council Bluffs, IA
Upstairs Conference Room 2C
Program begins: 2:00 PM
Ottumwa
Obama for America Office
222 East 2nd Street
Ottumwa, IA
Program begins: 12:00 PM
Mason City
Obama for America Office
503 South Federal Avenue, Ste. B
Mason City, IA
Program begins: 10:30 AM
Sioux City
Obama for America Office
1322 Pierce St
Sioux City, IA
Program begins: 2:00 PM
  