
    "Rising Star" of New Hampshire politics is latest in string of major endorsements
PORTSMOUTH, NH-- The Richardson for President campaign today announced a crucial endorsement from Portsmouth Mayor Steve Marchand, one of New Hampshire's brightest and most talented young leaders.
Steve Marchand, 33, was elected mayor of Portsmouth in 2005 with over 67 percent of the vote. He has been praised for his successful stewardship of green energy initiatives as well as his fiscal leadership in introducing transparency and accountability to the city budget. The Portsmouth Herald wrote of Marchand, "the guy has guts, energy and ambition." He previously was named New Hampshire's political "Rising Star" of the year by the website politicsnh.com.
Mayor Marchand will join the Richardson for President campaign as a Senior Advisor. He also will maintain a robust surrogate speaking schedule, traveling the Granite State and stumping on Governor Richardson's behalf.
"Bill Richardson is the most experienced candidate in the race, the most determined to end the war in Iraq, and the most capable of bringing about the real change that America needs," Marchand said.
Mayor Marchand cited Governor Richardson's record of success in promoting clean energy and protecting the environment in New Mexico as a key part of the rationale behind his endorsement. In recent years, Portsmouth also has become a national leader in green energy policy, joining both the Cities for Climate Protection Campaign and the U.S. Conference of Mayors Climate Protection Agreement.
"Governor Richardson's leadership made New Mexico the 'Clean Energy State,'" Marchand said. "Bill Richardson is the bold leader we need to break our addiction to foreign oil and build a clean energy economy in America."
Richardson welcomed the addition of Mayor Marchand to his growing New Hampshire team.
"I am honored to have the support of one of New Hampshire's brightest young leaders," Richardson said. "Steve Marchand's energetic leadership of the city of Portsmouth, particularly in the area of clean energy, is a model for the nation."
Mayor Marchand is the latest in a string of major endorsements for the Richardson campaign in New Hampshire. Last week, Richardson gained the support of former Ambassador and New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair George Bruno. Prior to that, former Manchester Mayor Bob Baines backed Richardson's campaign.
A near lifelong resident of New Hampshire, Steve Marchand was born in Manchester and attended Goffstown Area High School. Marchand also is one of New Hampshire's most seasoned political operatives, having served as a consultant, communications director, and campaign manager on dozens of local, statewide, and federal campaigns.
Steve lives in Portsmouth with his wife, Sandi Hennequin, and two young daughters, Abigail and Margaret. Click here for his complete biography.
  