
    
You can accomplish a lot in two days on the campaign trail.
On the campaign trail in Iowa, you can meet Hawkeyes on campuses and in farmer's markets, listen to stories in town hall meetings, and snap a few selfies.
Photography by Barbara Kinney and Michael Davidson

Ruby's mom brought her to see Hillary speak at Strawberry Farms Bed and Breakfast in Muscatine. (Ruby was more interested in the pumpkins.)

Hillary checks out the hot peppers (a personal favorite) at a farmer's market in Davenport.

Hillary speaks on gun violence in Muscatine: "This is not 'stuff that happens.' We let it happen. We lose between 88 and 92 Americans a day from gun violence—homicides, suicides and accidents—and we have to act."

Counting down to the Iowa caucus on February 1.

This two-and-a-half-year-old from Davenport stole the show.

H-I-L-L-A-R-Y! It's standing room only in Davenport.

Nods of agreement in the audience: "The economy should work for everyone—not just those at the top."

"You were great on Saturday Night Live—and if the election was today, I would vote for you. Can do your Donald Trump impression for us?" (Of course.)

As she introduced Hillary, Jenny from Council Bluffs told the story of her mom, who struggles to afford her monthly bill for a prescription drug that keeps her alive. After the event, Hillary made sure to put in a special phone call to Jenny's mom: "Yes, it really is Hillary Clinton!"

Two Chicago Cubs fans share a selfie at Cornell College in Mount Vernon.

Sophie, a student with type 1 diabetes, introduced Hillary by telling her personal health care story: If she weren't on her mother's plan, she wouldn't be able to afford the care she needs.

After speaking for a few minutes at Cornell College, Hillary turned it over to the crowd to hear from students and professors about the issues on their minds.

Students' questions at Cornell ranged from fine arts in schools (Hillary's a big fan) to the conflict between Israel and Palestine.

As Hillary discussed her plan to make sure that every 18-year-old is automatically registered to vote, a Cornell College student in the back turned to her friends and said, "That's me!"

Here's to a country where this young fan from Council Bluffs can be anything she wants to be when she grows up—even president of the United States.
Want the latest updates from the campaign trail? Follow Hillary on Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram.
  