
    
  Persecuted American Christians to Tell their Stories

HOUSTON, Texas – The Cruz for President Campaign announced today that on November 14, Ted Cruz will host a Rally for Religious Liberty in Greenville, SC. The rally will call attention to recent acts of government-sanctioned religious persecution against Americans of faith, and in particular recent attacks against evangelical Christians. RSVP information for press who wish to cover the event is below.
Participating in the Rally for Religious Liberty will be Family Research Council president, Tony Perkins, author of a new book on religious liberty, No Fear: Real Stories of a Courageous New Generation Standing for Truth. The book features stories — some of which will be shared during the rally — of ordinary young believers who, despite incredible opposition, have courageously stood up for God's truth.
Also, joining Sen. Cruz will be brothers Jason and David Benham, entrepreneurs and former major league baseball players. The Benham's HGTV reality show was canceled when their personal opposition to redefining marriage as something other than one man and one woman was made public.
"Today we are seeing the greatest attack on the free exercise of religion in the history of this nation. These Americans who have been persecuted by their own government have inspired millions," Cruz said. "These are people across this country who want to live according to their faith and convictions without being second-guessed or shut down by the federal government."
In August, a similar rally hosted by Cruz in Des Moines, Iowa drew more than 2,500 attendees. Cruz was then joined by:

Senior Master Sergeant Phillip Monk, a 20-year Air Force veteran, discharged for simply answering his commander's questions on his beliefs about marriage
Barronelle Stutzman, a Washington state florist, sued for declining to provide flowers for a same-sex wedding ceremony
Former Atlanta Fire Chief Kelvin Cochran, fired for mentioning God's view of marriage in a book he wrote on his personal time as a Sunday School teacher
Kentucky printer Blaine Adamson, sued for declining to print t-shirts for a gay pride parade
Oregon bakery owners, Melissa and Aaron Klein, who lost their business because they would not provide a cake for a same-sex ceremony
Naghmeh Abedini, wife of Saeed Abedini, the American-Iranian pastor still imprisoned in Iran

Steve Deace, an influential talk show host and columnist who moderated discussion at the rally later said of the event, "Friday night I attended the best candidate event I've ever attended in Iowa, and the candidate wasn't even the main event. The Holy Spirit was. We're hearing a lot from candidates these days about the need for revival, but Ted Cruz is the first candidate I've ever seen put on an event trying to ignite one. Tonight's rally for religious liberty was moving, challenging, convicting, and entertaining. Tears were shed for those persecuted for their faith. Mere campaigns aren't capable of this kind of event — only movements."
The South Carolina Rally for Religious Liberty will be held at Bob Jones University at 1700 Wade Hampton Blvd in Greenville, South Carolina on November 14. Doors open at 10:30 a.m., and the event will take place from noon to 2:00 p.m.
To RSVP, please visit click here.
*NOTE: Press planning on attending need to RSVP to [email protected] by 2 p.m. CT on Friday October 30th. Please note names of who will be attending, if you need camera space on riser and if you are bringing a truck.
  