
    Gov. Perry has unveiled the first part of his comprehensive economic plan: Energizing American Jobs and Security. National Review grades the policy proposals:
Gov. Rick Perry has released a jobs plan. Or is it an energy plan? Or it is an EPA-reform plan? Or is it a trade-deficit plan? The plan is a bit of each, and it is a very good one.
Governor Perry, under whom Texas enjoyed the strongest job-creation record of any large U.S. state, proposes to open up oil and gas production in areas in which American producers are either shut out or heavily restricted: the Gulf of Mexico, the Florida coast, and Alaska, among others. Perry's plan also entails the approval of the Keystone XL pipeline and the liberalization of regulations hindering production in throughout the United States. Governor Perry estimates that U.S. oil and gas production could be expanded by some 9.3 million barrels of oil per day and 22.4 billion cubic feet of natural gas, creating more than 1 million new energy-industry jobs.

National Review also notes that much of the plan can be implemented almost immediately-without the gridlock of Congress.
Governor Perry argues that much of his agenda could be accomplished without going through Congress. That would mean a lot of executive orders and some arm-twisting of governors and state legislatures. That's a lot of unilateral executive action, but then, there's been a lot of unilateral executive action suffocating the energy industry. Before the election of Barack Obama, there were on average 130 drilling-plan approvals issued by the federal government each year; in the Obama era, there has been an average of 30 approvals each year. Before Obama, there were an average of 545 Gulf of Mexico permits issued annually; under Obama, that average has been 203. Cutting the number of permits and approvals by 50 percent or 75 percent has predictable results; so would reversing that trend. Likewise, aggressive new EPA action has come largely out of executive initiative, not as a result of new legislation passed by Congress. Perry's plan would cut the EPA budget by a punitive 60 percent, suspend the implementation of new regulations, and require the agency to conduct a rigorous cost-benefit analysis for new regulations.

Read Gov. Perry's full plan, which will allow the creation of 1.2 million jobs while halting Obama's job-killing agenda that is projected to eliminate 2.4 million more jobs.
The full National Review article.
  