
    
"Barack Obama's call for 'change' has a certain appeal, to be sure. But this is no time to be rolling the dice on an untested leader whose rhetoric doesn't match his record when it comes to delivering actual change. John McCain has a long history of standing up to Washington's permanent political class, regardless of party, and pushing for institutional reforms to end business as usual. He is the right leader to restore trust in our government, confidence to our markets and prosperity to our country." -- New Hampshire Union Leader
"McCain for President: A Real Leader For America"
Editorial
New Hampshire Union LeaderOctober 15, 2008
In this time of great uncertainty, America needs an experienced, decisive leader with clear vision and a steady hand to guide us through. That man is Sen. John McCain.
The troubles that will face the next President of the United States are numerous and perilous. They will test the character, the resolve and the mettle of the man we choose to deal with them. Of the two men who stand on the precipice of that great office, only John McCain has proved that he has what it takes to make the tough decisions in a time of crisis.
Weeks ago, when the credit markets began to freeze and swift action was needed from Washington, Barack Obama took the weekend to think about it. John McCain suspended his campaign and flew back to Washington to work out a solution.
Two years ago, when warning signs were flashing red that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac were in serious financial danger, John McCain called for their reform and co-sponsored a bill designed to prevent them from destabilizing the whole economy. Barack Obama did nothing.
Even before President Bush hired Gen. David Petraeus to turn around the war in Iraq, John McCain warned that we needed more troops on the ground. He was an immediate and vocal advocate of Gen. Petraeus' surge strategy, which turned a "lost" war into what increasingly looks like a victory. Barack Obama opposed it and advocated withdrawal.
For the last two decades, whenever Washington went on a spending spree it couldn't afford, John McCain stood in defiant opposition. Even if the spenders were members of his own party, he called them out. In only a few short years, Barack Obama has become a master distributor of pork and an opponent of controlling runaway spending. He even voted against defunding the Bridge to Nowhere and using the money for Hurricane Katrina relief.
Barack Obama's call for "change" has a certain appeal, to be sure. But this is no time to be rolling the dice on an untested leader whose rhetoric doesn't match his record when it comes to delivering actual change. John McCain has a long history of standing up to Washington's permanent political class, regardless of party, and pushing for institutional reforms to end business as usual. He is the right leader to restore trust in our government, confidence to our markets and prosperity to our country. On Nov. 4, do right by your country and vote for John McCain for President.
Read The Editorial
  