
    Across the country, local news outlets are reporting on  how the historic Biden economic recovery has led to another consecutive month of historic job growth and record low unemployment in several states.
In September, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics:

17 states had unemployment rates at or below 3 percent.


11 states and the District of Columbia either set new records or matched records for their lowest unemployment rates since the beginning of the state data series in 1976.


All 50 States and the District of Columbia had their unemployment rate decrease or remain unchanged from a year earlier.

This data is further proof that President Biden's economic agenda is working, and that the U.S. economy is moving from a historically strong economic recovery to more steady and stable growth.
Read below for a sampling of the local coverage. 
WKBT (CBS La Crosse, WI): Wisconsin's unemployment rate below national average Wisconsin's unemployment rate is below the national average. According to White House data released today, Wisconsin's rate is 3.2%. The national average is at 3.5%. In a one-on-one interview with News 8 Now, one of President Biden's economic advisors says Wisconsin's economy is strong. Jared Bernstein also touted the president's work to decrease the deficit by a record $1.4 trillion. "Wisconsin is a good example of that where we have an unemployment rate of close to three percent in the state, lot of people work which means they're drawing paychecks and it also is good news for deficit reduction so we're glad to see that," said Jared Bernstein, member of the president's council of economic advisors.
Additional local coverage: 

AL: WVTM (NBC Birmingham, AL): Alabama's unemployment rate remains at record low


AL: WBRC (FOX Birmingham, AL): Alabama maintaining record low unemployment, Labor Department says]


CA: Lake County News: Unemployment drops in Lake County, state and nation in September]


CA: KSBW (NBC/ABC Salinas, CA): California matches record low unemployment rate


GA: WRDW (CBS Augusta, GA): Ga. unemployment rate stays at record low as jobs hit all-time high


GA: Clayton News Daily: Georgia unemployment remains at record low


GA: Marietta Daily Journal: Georgia unemployment remains at record low


FL: Hernando Sun: State unemployment rate lowest since 2006


FL: WCJB (ABC/CW Gainesville, FL): Florida unemployment rate falls to near record low


LA: Pelican Post News: Louisiana's 3.4% unemployment rate is lowest ever


MA: Worchester Business Journal: Mass. unemployment rate fell to 3.4% in September


MI: Grand Valley Lanthorn: Falling unemployment numbers signal hope for GV graduates


MO: Springfield Business Journal: Missouri unemployment rate drops to historic low


NM: Albuquerque News Journal: New Mexico sees unemployment drop in September


PA: Wilkes-Barre Times Leader: Pa.'s unemployment rate at 4.1% in September; lowest onrecord since 1976


PA: WOLF (FOX Northeastern Pennsylvania): Pennsylvania reports record lowunemployment rates


TN: Clarksville Online: Tennessee's September Unemployment Rate remained Steady


TX: KFDM (CBS/FOX/CW Beaumont, TX): Unemployment rate down in Southeast Texas and across the state]

  