
    
America's farmers and ranchers are an important source of our country's prosperity. Marco will get government out of the way of agriculture so that American farmers and ranchers can build their businesses, compete as exporters, and create jobs.
As President, Marco will:
Repeal Burdensome Regulations on Farmers and Ranchers
Marco will undo the Environmental Protection Agency's Waters of the U.S. Rule, that will dramatically expand federal control over ponds, ditches and streams. Further, he will fight President Obama's carbon mandates and excessive application of the Endangered Species Act, which can, when misused, deem huge swathes of productive land off-limits for agriculture or other beneficial development.
Permanently End the Punitive Death Tax
Marco's comprehensive pro-growth, pro-family tax reform will permanently end the death tax and allow farmers and ranchers to immediately write off the cost of new machinery and equipment. According to the nonpartisan Tax Foundation, the plan would raise wages and boost investment dramatically. Read more about his tax plan here.
Oppose New Taxes on Energy
As President, Marco will fight the establishment of a cap-and-trade program or carbon tax, which would act as a new national energy tax on agriculture producers and raise costs for consumers. In addition, Marco will push for other reforms to unleash American energy production and bring down energy costs for farmers. Read more about Marco's energy plan here.
Open New Markets for Farmers and Ranchers
Marco supports Trade Promotion Authority (TPA), which asserts Congress's role in critical trade negotiations and paves the way for the creation of agricultural jobs. Marco will also push for timely completion of trade agreements to boost exports for American farmers and ranchers.
Curb Overregulation
Farmers and ranchers deal with huge costs imposed by the federal regulations, which interfere in labeling procedures, land use, and more. Marco has proposed a National Regulatory Budget that will cap the costs federal regulations can impose on the economy, including a limit for each individual agency. This will prevent regulators from imposing costly new rules on the agriculture sector at a whim, and give Congress the ability to rein in regulators. Read more about the idea here.
Rep. Kristi Noem of South Dakota — a rancher, farmer, and small business owner — had this to say about Marco's strong support for farmers:

As President, Marco will make sure we support our farmers and ranchers. He will carry out a conservative agenda that gets the federal government off the backs of small businesses. He supports repealing the death tax that hit our family when tragedy struck and will reform our tax code to create jobs across America.
Marco has also promised to take a stand against environmental regulations perpetuated by the Obama administration that target farmers, including the controversial "Waters of the U.S." land grab. He will stop regulators from using the Endangered Species Act to further their influence and control. He'll replace bureaucracy with a common-sense approach, making institutional changes that limit the cost of regulations and save you money.
Read more of what Rep. Noem has to say about Marco here
  