
    Today, the Clinton campaign kicks off its week-long focus on Women Changing America. During the week, the campaign will highlight the decisive role women can play in this election, discuss issues important to women, and celebrate the ways that women are changing America everyday. The campaign will also hold local events in early states across the country.
"America is ready for change – and I believe women will lead that change," Clinton said. "It's up to us to do our part to take back the White House and change this country, and that's exactly what we're going to do. I say this nation can shatter the highest glass ceiling – because that's what Americans have been doing for over 200 years."
Hillary begins the week with this morning with an appearance on "The View" and speaks at the Eleanor Roosevelt Legacy Committee's Annual Fall Campaign Luncheon in New York. On Tuesday, she travels to New Hampshire to announce a new policy proposal to help working parents.
On Wednesday, nearly 1,000 women contributors from 47 states around the country will convene for a women's finance summit in support of the Clinton campaign – a full-day event that will raise well over $1 million. A majority of the small donors to the campaign are women. Also on Wednesday, the campaign will announce Women for Hillary Councils in states across the country that will work to elect Hillary our next President.
And on Thursday, Hillary will discuss the importance of health care for women when she participates in the Presidential Candidate Forums organized by the Federation of American Hospitals and Families USA and hosts a conference call with women doctors and health care professionals from the American Medical Women's Association and other health care organizations.
Throughout the week, the campaign will announce the endorsements of prominent women from across the country and the Web site will feature different women who are changing America. The week's events will underscore why Hillary enjoys such deep support among women voters by emphasizing how her strength and experience make her the candidate best able to deliver change on the issues most important to them.
The campaign will also conduct a number of events in Nevada, Iowa, South Carolina, New Hampshire and California.
In Nevada, women supporters are phone banking other women throughout the state and EMILY's List Founder and President Ellen Malcolm is recruiting women in Reno to join Nevada Women for Hillary. In Iowa, women are organizing house parties to talk about Hillary and recruit precinct captains, and actress Victoria Rowell and former Ambassador Elizabeth Bagley are travelling across the state recruiting other women for Hillary. In South Carolina, women supporters are organizing Women for Hillary coordinators in every county as part of a month-long effort generating new grassroots support. In New Hampshire, Hillary will speak to a group in Manchester about her new policy proposal to help parents balance work obligations and time with their families, and NH for Hillary will hold women-to-women phone banks throughout the week. In California, Judy Lichtman, a lifetime advocate for women and families and one of the authors of the original Family and Medical Leave Act, will make multiple appearances talking about Hillary's commitment to work/family flexibility, holding events with a diverse group of women across the state.
  