
    Pool Reports by Sarah Mucha, Axios 



Sent:
Reports:




October 25, 202114:34

FLOTUS Travel Pool #1: FLOTUS arrives at MUSC in Charleston 
Good afternoon! FLOTUS has just arrived at the Medical University of South Carolina in Charleston at 2:25pm EST, where she will tour the Hollings Cancer Center. Pool was tested earlier today and came separately from the motorcade. We were swept on arrival.
The First Lady is wearing a golden yellow skirt and matching yellow shirt with taupe heels. She walked in holding blue paper bags, exclaiming to those greeting her, "Hello! I come bearing cookies from the White House!" The cookies have pink frosting and are cut in the shape of Breast Cancer Awareness ribbons.
She is being greeted by the following people, according to her office: Dr. David Cole, President, Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC), Dr. Raymond DuBois, Director of MUSC Hollings Cancer Center and Dean of the MUSC College of Medicine, and Dr. Marvella Ford, Associate Director of Population Sciences and Cancer Disparities, MUSC Hollings Cancer Center.
Some background provided by OFL below. 
The First Lady will tour the Medical University of South Carolina (MUSC) Hollings Cancer Center (HCC) in Charleston, South Carolina. She will be accompanied by Dr. Ned Sharpless, Director of the National Cancer Institute (NCI). Her visit will highlight HCC's efforts to provide breast cancer screenings, education, and care to women – and especially African American women – in rural and medically underserved communities across the state. Notably, African American women are typically diagnosed with cancer later than white women, and they are 40 percent more likely to die from breast cancer than white women. The First Lady and Dr. Sharpless will greet with HCC's leadership, tour the HCC facility, and view the HCC Mobile Health Unit.
Hollings Cancer Center's mission is to reduce the cancer burden in South Carolina and nationally through research, education and training, patient care, and statewide cancer prevention programs. Founded in 1993, HCC was named for U.S. Senator Fritz Hollings, who helped to establish the cancer center. As the leading cancer treatment center in South Carolina, HCC provides a full range of care, including medical oncology, radiation therapy, surgical oncology, reconstructive surgery, clinical trials, and immunotherapy. Breast cancer is the most common type of cancer seen at HCC, representing over 25% of the cancer cases they encounter.



October 25, 202115:41

FLOTUS Travel Pool #2: Hollings Cancer Center tour 
After being greeted in the lobby, FLOTUS met with several cancer survivors and heard presentations from MUSC employees.
The First Lady expressed that cancer touches every American family in some way. When Dr. Marvella Ford addressed her as the First Lady, she replied, "Call me Jill, please."
Complimented on her yellow outfit, the First Lady said, "I'm trying to bring sunshine!"
One woman said that she is living with metastatic breast cancer. She was first diagnosed in 2012. "Too many women, particularly Black women, are living with breast cancer," she said, explaining that she hopes to use her platform to raise awareness for Black women and minorities to be screened for cancer earlier.
Asked by a reporter how she felt hearing the women's stories, the First Lady replied, "It's stories I heard when four of my close friends were diagnosed with breast cancer," adding that she vowed then that she would commit to using her platform to raise cancer prevention awareness.
FLOTUS then stopped in a lab at 3:14pm EST, where she was greeted by a doctor/program director, along with an MUSC student, who both conduct breast cancer research. She then moved outside to tour the inside of a mobile health unit that provides breast, skin and cervical screening. Upon exiting, FLOTUS shook hands to say goodbye with MUSC doctors.
Pool is now moving to the vans to roll to Joint Base Charleston for the second stop of the day.



October 25, 202115:48

FLOTUS Travel Pool #3: Rolling to Joint Base Charleston 
The motorcade is rolling from MUSC to Joint Base Charleston at 3:41pm EST, where the First Lady will deliver remarks and greet service members and their families.
Some background from OFL below:The First Lady will travel to Joint Base Charleston to thank service members and families for their sacrifices. Joint Base Charleston is one of 12 Joint Bases and host to over 60 DOD and Federal agencies. Dr. Biden will provide remarks and greet with base service members and families. She will be introduced by Mrs. Crystal Johnson, an Air Force spouse.



October 25, 202116:28

FLOTUS Travel Pool #4: Joint Base Charleston remarks 
Motorcade arrived at JBC at 4pm EST, where service members and their spouses are standing outside at a picnic area.
From the motorcade, FLOTUS stopped to chat with a few people before she was introduced by an Air Force spouse, Crystal Johnson, whose husband participated in the Afghanistan evacuation. She took the podium, situated in front of a gazebo, to deliver remarks. They lasted approximately 8 minutes.
"Joint Base Charleston has a proud history," Biden began, talking about her father's service in the military. "In the final days of America's war, the women and men of the 437th Airlift Wing distinguished themselves in the execution of one of the largest humanitarian airlifts ever conducted," she said. She spoke to the families back home, who balance "pride and fear, frustration and joy" through tours of duties and homecomings.
"Our Afghan allies have become friends, partners and even family," she said, expressing gratitude for Americans' and the military's service in welcoming Afghan refugees into the United States "without conditions or complaints."
"Thank you for all that you've done and all that you will continue to do," she said. "If you need to talk to someone, reach out to the military crisis line. Help is available. You are not alone. Your commitment to our country never waivers. And neither will our commitment to you."
Full remarks here:https://otter.ai/u/yP39QRmOxARbX6cV8tJc_t9EZ0c
FLOTUS is now greeting several service members.



October 25, 202117:40

FLOTUS Travel Pool #5: Joint Base Charleston meet and greet 
Following her remarks, the First Lady greeted people in the crowd before moving to a sectioned-off area where service members sat at picnic tables. Some of these members served in the Afghanistan evacuation. There were about 150-200 people in the audience when she delivered her remarks.
She signed a copy of "Joey," the children's book she wrote about President Biden, for one of the service members.
Asked how it feels to be with members of the military, she said, "We're a military family," adding that it's important to thank troops for their service. She said she expects to visit more bases in the near future.
She was introduced to three airmen who had "key roles during the Afghanistan evacuation," per their commander. "There's nobody you would rather have at the control of the aircraft than these three airmen right here," he said, calling them the "best of the best." The First Lady made a point to ask the commander to reiterate his praise of the airmen more loudly to the press, which he did.
Motorcade is now rolling to the airport to depart for JBA.



October 25, 202117:35

FLOTUS Travel Pool #6: Wheels up to JBA 
The First Lady was greeted by Colonel Greene and Captain Peterson from Joint Base Charleston on the tarmac at Charleston International Airport. She held a brief photo line with members of law enforcement and volunteer drivers before boarding the plane solo at 5:15pm EST.
It's 5:31pm EST, and we're wheels up back to JBA. About 1.5 hour flight time.



October 25, 202118:58

FLOTUS Travel Pool #7: Rolling back to White House 
Plane was wheels down at rainy JBA at 6:30pm EST after an uneventful ride back. Pool didn't see FLOTUS deplane.
Motorcade is rolling back to the White House at 6:44pm EST.



October 25, 202119:34

FLOTUS Travel Pool #8: Returned to White House 
Motorcade pulled into the White House at 7:12pm EST after an uneventful ride. Pool didn't see the First Lady exit her vehicle upon return.
That's it from pool. Good night!




  