
    Mr. Vice President, Mr. Foreign Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, members of the Cabinet, Members of the Congress, and all of our distinguished guests:
As has already been indicated, the documents we have signed today place into force the first limitation on offensive and defensive nuclear arms ever entered into, and particularly it is important that this limitation is entered into between the Soviet Union and the United States of America.
On this particular occasion, I would like to pay a personal tribute to and express the thanks of the Nation to the Members of the House and the Senate who, in a bipartisan manner, gave approval and support to these historic agreements.
Also, I would like to pay tribute to and express personal appreciation to the scores of people in both governments who are not seated here at the table, but who worked with those at the table in working out the details of these agreements and their substance over almost 3 years.
It would not be fair to mention the names of all of them, or even a few, but I am sure that everyone would appreciate the fact that I would say that one name particularly comes to mind today, a former Ambassador from the United States to the Soviet Union, who also served with Ambassador [Gerard C.] Smith on the delegation to SALT from the United States--Ambassador Llewellyn Thompson.
It can truly be said of him, as it can be said of so many others who have worked in this field, that he gave his life to the cause of peace.
On this occasion, we recognize that these agreements mean the first step in limiting the burden of nuclear arms as far as our two nations are concerned. Also, these agreements mean a first step in reducing the danger of war in the world and increasing the chances of peace.
I have used the term "first step" quite deliberately, because--while these agreements have enormous significance in the ban on defensive nuclear weapons beyond the points that are covered in the agreement and in the treaty, an enormous significance in terms of the limitation of certain offensive categories--there remains a significant number of categories in the nuclear field that are not covered. And that is why I share the views that have been expressed by Foreign Minister Gromyko that we must now move from this first step to the vitally important next step in which we consider the whole range of offensive nuclear weapons and try to find agreement between our two nations in that field.
And then beyond, after that step is taken, we can look to the possibility of reducing the burden of nuclear arms and eventually to the possibility of limitations and restrictions on the use of such arms.
What we are in effect witnessing today, then, is, we believe, the beginning of a great historical process in which we have learned by working out these agreements, following, as they do, the Non-Proliferation Treaty and the Test Ban Treaty, that we have found the way to make progress in other fields which can eventually lead to the goal that we all want, a world that is much safer and particularly a world that may possibly be free from the enormous danger of a nuclear disaster.
I think all of us are quite aware of the fact that the signing of these documents today, the signing of the documents that occurred earlier this year in the Kremlin, raise the hopes of all the people of the world for a dream of mankind from the beginning of civilization, a world of peace, a world in which peoples with different governments and different philosophies could live in peace together.
We believe that we have contributed to that cause and to the realization of that dream. And as we take this first step, we look forward to working together in taking the next steps, we look forward particularly in being worthy of the hopes of the people of the world. And we can be worthy of those hopes if our two great nations can move together, not only to limit the burden of arms on ourselves but to lift the burden of fear of war from all of the people of the world.
  