
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

To listen to a country and western song is to hear the story of America set to music. It is a story of patriotism and hard work, a story of faith, opportunity, and achievement. Most of all, it is the story of a people whose love of freedom is equalled only by their love of life itself. During Country Music Month, we proudly celebrate this popular musical genre and the many talented composers and performers who bring it to our ears.
Country music is honest, good-natured music played with style and spirit. Like a favorite pair of faded blue jeans, it fits the way we live. Never out of fashion, always comfortable, country music has millions of fans in cities and towns across the United States -- people of all ages and all walks of life. And whether they tap their toes to the lively sound of bluegrass and honky-tonk or hum along with the rhythm and blues, country music lovers share an appreciation of the simple and most important things in life: faith, family, and friendship.
Of course, while country music speaks from the heart of the American people, it has -- like liberty itself -- a great and universal appeal. Indeed, millions of people around the world can be counted among its fans. Maybe that is because country music crosses the barriers of culture and language, capturing all the joys, struggles, laughter, and heartache that are part of our daily lives. In any case, the growing popularity of country music is a tribute to generations of American composers, lyricists, singers, and musicians.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 305, has designated October 1991 as "Country Music Month" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 1991 as Country Music Month. I invite all Americans to observe this month with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  