
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Muskegon, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Michigan families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Michigan the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program protected 1.6 million Michigan jobs by providing $16 billion worth of loans to over 128,000 Michigan businesses.
Over 5 million Michiganders received Economic Impact Payments totaling nearly $8.5 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing almost $4 billion worth of aid to the state and nearly $937 million to 11,383 health care providers in Michigan.

Michigan businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Michigan workers and businesses.
In the last4 months, Michigan added over 590,000 jobs back following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus.
Michigan added 112,700 new jobs between President Trump's election and February 2020, including 23,800 construction jobs and 6,600 manufacturing jobs.
Before China unleashed the coronavirus on the world, Michigan's unemployment rate had fallen to just 3.6%, a low last matched in 2000. The state's average unemployment rate during the Obama-Biden administration was 9%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to add over 36,000 new Michigan jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 288 Michigan communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Michigan's economy:

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Michigan's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports $36 billion annually in goods to Canada and Mexico.
The USMCA will help revive American car and truck manufacturing. It is projected to create 76,000 new automotive jobs and will lead to an estimated $34 billion in new U.S. automotive investment over the next 5 years.
President Trump is defending Michigan farmers and agriculture producers from China's unfair tariffs by providing $262.5 million in direct USDA payments.

But Joe Biden's radical, far-left agenda will decimate Michigan workers and families:

The terrible trade deals that Biden supported during his 44 years as a career politician in Washington killed Michigan jobs.

Michigan lost 43,600 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden voted for.
Michigan lost 210,800 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalized trade relations with China, which killed 92,400 Michigan jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies and promise to "end fossil fuel" would devastate Michigan workers and businesses.

The oil, gas, and coal industries support nearly 160,000 jobs in Michigan and contribute nearly $15 billion to the state's economy annually.
Over 85% of Michigan homes are heated by natural gas, fuel oil, or propane, and the Green New Deal would cost the average Michigan household a staggering $40,000 each year.
Biden's proposed fracking ban would kill 516,000 Michigan jobs, cost its economy $159 billion, and shrink Michigan's tax revenues by $13 billion – a loss that would have to be made up with higher taxes.


Biden's plans endanger the private health insurance that over 5.5 million Michiganders rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 44 of Michigan's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.


Joe Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. Over 145,000 Michigan students are enrolled in 366 charter schools throughout the state.

  