
    By the authority vested in me as President of the United States of America by Section 827 of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 4067) (hereafter referred to as "the Act"), and in order to conform further the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability System to the Civil Service Retirement and Disability System, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Interest Rates, Deposits, Refunds, and Redeposits. (a) The second sentence of Section 805(d)(3) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4045(d)(3)), the first sentence of Section 815 (h) (22 U.S.C. 4055(h), and the first sentence of Section 825(a) (22 U.S.C. 4065(a)), are deemed to be amended to provide that interest shall be compounded at the annual rate of 3 percent per annum through December 31, 1984, and thereafter at a rate equal to the overall average yield to the Fund during the preceding fiscal year from all obligations purchased by the Secretary of the Treasury during such fiscal year under section 819, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury.
(b) Sections 806(a) and 816(d) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4046(a) and 4056(d)) are deemed to be amended to exclude from the computation of creditable civilian service under section 816(a) of the Act any period of civilian service for which retirement deductions or contributions have not been made under section 805(d) of the Act unless-
(l) the participant makes a contribution for such period as provided in such section 805(d); or
(2) no contribution is required for such service as provided under section 805(f) of the Act as deemed to be amended by this Order, or under any other statute.
(c) The amendments deemed to be made by section 1 of this Order shall apply (i) to contributions for civilian service performed on or after the first day of the month following issuance of this Order, (ii) to contributions for prior refunds to participants for which application is received by the employing agency on and after such first day of the month, and (iii) to excess contributions under section 815(h) and voluntary contributions under section 825(a) from the first day of the month following issuance of this Order.
Sec. 2. Rounding Down of Annuities. (a) Section 826(e) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4066(e)) is deemed to be amended by striking out "fixed at the nearest" and inserting in lieu thereof "rounded to the next lowest".
(b) The amendment deemed to be made by section 2(a) of this Order shall be effective with respect to any adjustment or redetermination of any annuity made on or after the date of this Order.
Sec. 3. Later Commencement Date For Certain Annuities.
(a) Section 807(a) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4047(a)) is deemed to be amended to read as follows:
"(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2), the annuity of a participant who has met the eligibility requirements for an annuity shall commence on the first day of the month after—
"(A) separation from the Service occurs; or
"(B) pay ceases and the service and age requirements for entitlement to annuity are met.
"(2) The annuity of—
"(A) a participant who is retired and is eligible for benefits under section 609(a) or a participant who is retired under section 813 or is otherwise involuntarily separated from the Service, except by removal for cause on charges of misconduct or delinquency,
"(B) a participant retiring under section 808 due to a disability, and
"(C) a participant who serves 3 days or less in the month of retirement-shall commence on the day after separation from the Service or the day after pay ceases and the requirements for entitlement to annuity are met.".
(b) The amendment deemed to be made by paragraph 3(a) of this Order shall become effective thirty days after the effective date of this Order.
Sec. 4. Credit For Military Service. (a) Section 805 of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4045) is deemed to be amended-
(i) by striking out subsection (e) and substituting the following subsection in lieu thereof:
"(e)(1) Each participant who has performed military or naval service before the date of separation on which the entitlement to any annuity under this chapter is based may pay to the Secretary a special contribution equal to 7 percent of the amount of the basic pay paid under section 204 of title 37 of the United States Code, to the participant for each period of military or naval service after December 1956. The amount of such payments shall be based on such evidence of basic pay for military service as the participant may provide or if the Secretary determines sufficient evidence has not been so provided to adequately determine basic pay for military or naval service, such payment shall be based upon estimates of such basic pay provided to the Department under paragraph (4).
"(2) Any deposit made under paragraph (1) of this subsection more than two years after the later of—
"(A) the effective date of this Order, or
"(B) the date on which the participant making the deposit first became a participant in a Federal staff retirement system for civilian employees,-shall include interest on such amount computed and compounded annually beginning on the date of the expiration of the two-year period. The interest rate that is applicable in computing interest in any year under this paragraph shall be equal to the interest rate that is applicable for such year under subsection (d) of this section.
"(3) Any payment received by the Secretary under this section shall be remitted to the Fund.
"(4) The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Commerce, or the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as appropriate, shall furnish such information to the Secretary as the Secretary may determine to be necessary for the administration of this subsection.
"(f) Contributions shall only be required to obtain credit for periods of military or naval service to the extent provided under section 805(e) and section 816(a), except that credit shall be allowed in the absence of contributions to individuals of Japanese ancestry under section 816 for periods of internment during World War II."; and—
"(ii) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (g).
(b) Section 816(a) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4056(a)) is deemed to be amended by adding "(1)" after "(a)" and by adding the following new paragraphs at the end thereof:
"(2) The service of an individual who first becomes a participant on or after the date of this Order without any credit under section 816 for civilian service performed prior to October 1, 1982, shall include credit for:
"(A) each period of military or naval service performed before January 1, 1957, and
"(B) each period of military or naval service performed after December 31, 1956, and before the separation on which the entitlement to annuity under this chapter is based, only if a deposit (with interest if any is required) is made with respect to that period, as provided in section 805(e).
"(3) The service of an individual who first became a participant on or after the date of this Order with credit under section 816 for civilian service performed prior to October 1982, shall include credit for each period of military or naval service performed before the date of the separation on which the entitlement to an annuity under this chapter is based, subject, in the case of military or naval service performed after December 1956, to section 816(j), as deemed to be added by this Order.
"(4) The service of an individual who first became a participant before the date of this Order shall include credit for each period of military or naval service performed before the date of the separation on which the entitlement to an annuity under this chapter is based, subject, in the case of military or naval service performed after December 1976, to section 816(j), as deemed to be added by this Order";
(c) Section 816 of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4056) is deemed to be further amended by adding a new subsection (j) at the end thereof to read as follows:
"(1) Except as otherwise provided by statute or Executive Order, Section 8332(j) of Title 5, United States Code, relating to redetermination of credit for military and naval service, shall be applied to annuities payable under this chapter. The Secretary of State shall redetermine service, and may request and obtain information from the Secretary of Health and Human Services, as the Office of Personnel Management is directed or authorized to do in Section 83320).
"(2) Section 83320) of Title 5, United States Code, shall not apply with respect to:
(A) the service of any individual who first became a participant on or after the date of this Order without any credit under section 816 for civilian service performed prior to October 1982; or
(B) any military or naval service performed prior to 1957 by an individual who first became a participant on or after the date of this Order with credit under section 816 for civilian service performed prior to October 1982, or any period of military or naval service performed after 1956 with respect to which the participant has made a contribution (with interest if any is required) under section 805(e); or
(c) any military or naval service performed prior to 1977 by any individual who first became a participant before the date of this Order or any period of military or naval service performed after 1976 with respect to which the participant has made a contribution (with interest if any is required) under section 805(e).
(d) Section 822(a) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4062(a)) is deemed to be amended by striking out the period at the end thereof and inserting in lieu thereof: ", less an amount determined by the Secretary of State to be appropriate to reflect the value of the deposits made to the credit of the Fund under section 805(e).".
(e) The amendments deemed to be made by Section 4 of this Order shall be effective on the date of this Order.
Sec. 5. Recomputation at Age 62 of Credit for Military Service of Current Annuitants. (a) Section 816(a) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4056(a)) is deemed to be further amended so that the provisions of section 8332(j) of Title 5 of the United States Code, relating to credit for military service, shall not apply with respect to any individual who is entitled to an annuity under such Act on or before the date of approval of this Order, or who is entitled to an annuity based on a separation from service occurring on or before such date.
(b) Subject to subsection (c), in any case in which an individual described in subsection (a) is also entitled to old-age or survivors insurance benefits under section 202 of the Social Security Act (or would be entitled to such benefits upon filing application therefor), the amount of the annuity to which such individual is entitled under chapter 8 of the Act (after taking into account subsection (a)) which is payable for any month shall be reduced by an amount determined by multiplying the amount of such old-age or survivors insurance benefit for the determination month by a fraction—
(1) the numerator of which is the total of the wages (within the meaning of section 209 of the Social Security Act) for service referred to in section 210(1) of such Act (relating to service in the uniformed services) and deemed additional wages (within the meaning of section 229 of such Act) of such individual credited for years after 1956 and before the calendar year in which the determination month occurs, up to the contribution and benefit base determined under section 230 of the Social Security Act (or other applicable maximum annual amount referred to in section 215(e)(1) of such Act) for each such year, and
(2) the denominator of which is the total of all wages deemed additional wages described in paragraph (1) of this subsection plus all other wages (within the meaning of section 209 of the Social Security Act) and all self-employment income (within the meaning of section 211(b) of such Act) of such individual credited for years after 1936 and before the calendar year in which the determination month occurs, up to the contribution and benefit base (or such other amount referred to in such section 215(e)(1) of such Act) for each such year.
(c) Subsection (b) shall not reduce the annuity of any individual below the amount of the annuity which would be payable under chapter 8 of the Act to the individual for the determination month if section 8332(j) of Title 5 of the United States Code applied to the individual for such month.
(d) For purposes of this section, the term "determination month" means-
(1) the first month the individual described in subsection (a) is entitled to old age or survivors insurance benefits under section 202 of the Social Security Act (or would be entitled to such benefits upon filing application therefor); or
(2) the first day of the month following the month in which this Order is issued in the case of any individual so entitled to such benefits for such month.
(e) The preceding provisions of this section shall take effect with respect to any annuity payment payable under chapter 8 of the Act for calendar months beginning after the date of this Order.
(f) The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall furnish such information to the Secretary of State as may be necessary to carry out the preceding provisions of this section.
Sec. 6. General Limitation on Cost-of-Living Adjustment for Annuities. (a) Section 826 of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4066) is deemed to be amended to add at the end thereof the following new subsection:
"(g)(1) An annuity shall not be increased by reason of any adjustment under this section to an amount which exceeds the greater of—
"(A) the maximum pay rate payable for class FS-1 under section 403, 30 days be[ore the effective date of the adjustment under this section; or
"(B) the final pay (or average pay, if higher) of the former participant with respect to whom the annuity is paid, increased by the overall annual average percentage adjustments (compounded) in rates of pay of the Foreign Service Schedule under such section 403 during the period—
"(i) beginning on the date the annuity commenced (or, in the case of a survivor of the retired participant, the date the participant's annuity commenced), and
"(ii) ending on the effective date of the adjustment under this section.
"(2) For the purposes of paragraph (1) of this subsection, 'pay' means the rate of salary or basic pay as payable under any provision of law, including any provision of law limiting the expenditure of appropriated funds.".
(b) The amendment made by subsection (a) of this Section shall not cause any annuity to be reduced below the rate that is payable on the date of approval of this Order, but shall apply to any adjustment occurring on or after April 1, 1983 under Section 826 of the Act to any annuity payable from the Foreign Service Retirement and Disability Fund, whether such annuity has a commencing date before, on, or after the date of this Order.
RONALD REAGAN
The White House,
October 17, 1983.
[Filed with the Office of the Federal Register, 4:28 p.m., October 17, 1983]
  