
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Bonnie Bassler – Member, National Science Board, National Science Foundation
•      Carla M. León-Decker – Member, National Credit Union Administration Board
•      Mark William Lippert – Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs, Department of Defense
President Obama said, "Our nation will be greatly served by the talent and expertise these individuals bring to their new roles. I am grateful they have agreed to serve in this Administration, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Bonnie Bassler, Nominee for Member, National Science Board, National Science Foundation
Bonnie Bassler is a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator and the Squibb Professor of Molecular Biology at Princeton University. She is the Immediate Past President of the American Society for Microbiology and the Chair of the Board of Governors of the American Academy of Microbiology. Her research focuses on the molecular mechanisms that bacteria use for intercellular communication. Professor Bassler is a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. In 2009, she received the Wiley Prize in Biomedical Science. Professor Bassler received the 2011 Richard Lounsbery Award, one of the highest honors bestowed by the National Academy of Sciences. She is a 2002 MacArthur Fellow. She received her B.S. from the University of California, Davis and her Ph.D. from the Johns Hopkins University.
Carla M. León-Decker, Nominee for Member, National Credit Union Administration Board
Carla M. León-Decker is the President and CEO of the D.C. Federal Credit Union. From 1994 to 2000, Ms. León-Decker served at the PAHO/WHO Federal Credit Union, initially as Operations Manager and later as President and CEO. Before that, she was a branch manager at the Transportation Federal Credit Union where she served from 1988 to 1994. Ms. León-Decker is a credit union development educator and Co-Founder and Director of the Network of Latino Credit Unions & Professionals. She received her B.A. from Southeastern University and her M.A. in International Commerce and Policy from George Mason University.
Mark William Lippert, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense for Asian and Pacific Security Affairs, Department of Defense 
Mark William Lippert is currently serving on active duty as an Intelligence Officer in the United States Navy Reserve. Previously, he was Chief of Staff for the National Security Council in 2009. In 2008, he was Deputy Director for Foreign Policy on the Obama-Biden Transition Team and Senior Foreign Policy Adviser on the Obama for America campaign. From 2007 to 2008, Mr. Lippert served as an Intelligence Officer with SEAL Team One in Iraq. Previously, he worked as a foreign policy adviser for then-Senator Obama from 2005 to 2008. From 2000 to 2005, he was a professional staff member on the Senate Appropriations Committee, where he advised Senator Patrick Leahy. From 1999 to 2000 he was a foreign and defense policy adviser to Senator Tom Daschle and the Senate Democratic Policy Committee. Mr. Lippert is a recipient of a Bronze Star Medal for his service in Iraq and a Joint Commendation Medal for his service in Afghanistan. He holds a B.A. and M.A. from Stanford University.
  