
    "While sitting at the Wild Rover's bar afterward, Schilling said McCain had the ethics, integrity and experience to make a fine President. He also lamented how the contest was being portrayed in the media."
-- Union Leader
"Sox Star Campaigns For McCain"
By Benjamin Kepple, New Hampshire Union Leader
October 27, 2008
Local baseball fans and Republicans were in heaven last night, as Boston Red Sox ace pitcher Curt Schilling campaigned here on behalf of GOP presidential candidate Sen. John McCain.
Schilling signed autographs and posed for pictures with happy Sox fans at the Wild Rover Pub on Kosciuszko Street. Earlier, Schilling had appeared at the Peddler's Daughter, an Irish pub in Nashua. In brief remarks to customers at the Wild Rover, he encouraged them to vote for McCain, and spoke highly of the Arizona Republican's character.
"Other than my father, I've never met anybody with more integrity," Schilling said.
Schilling also encouraged McCain supporters not to lose heart in the face of gloomy predictions that McCain's opponent, U.S. Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., would win the election.
"Don't allow people to believe, quote-unquote, the hype," Schilling said. "(McCain's) been an underdog his whole life."
While sitting at the Wild Rover's bar afterward, Schilling said McCain had the ethics, integrity and experience to make a fine President. He also lamented how the contest was being portrayed in the media.
"The disappointing thing for me right now is all the white noise that's drowning out the real message," Schilling said.
Schilling, who said he believed the national media had an agenda about the election, hopes voters look at McCain's long track record before casting their ballots.
"I just implore people to go out and be informed," Schilling said.
Baseball fans at the Wild Rover were excited to meet Schilling, greeting his arrival with cheers and eagerly posing for pictures with the Red Sox ace.
"Curt Schilling can walk into a room and still make grown men cry for what he did back in 2004," said Bill Boyd, a Republican from Merrimack, referring to Schilling's performance in Game 6 of the American League Championship Series that year.
The Red Sox's triumph in that game was the third in a four-game comeback over the New York Yankees in the series; the Red Sox would go on to win the World Series for the first time in 86 years.
Boyd, who had Schilling sign a baseball and his "Red Sox Fans for Bush" sign, was thrilled to see Schilling campaign for the McCain-Palin ticket.
"We've got nine days to D-Day. To have somebody like Curt Schilling campaign on behalf of Sen. McCain and Gov. (Sarah) Palin is exhilarating," Boyd said.
ReadThe Article
  