
    [The President's remarks are joined in progress.]
The President. ——on the tarmac at the Miami airport for over an hour, and the pilot said we still couldn't take off because of the heavy rains and winds. And I really looked forward to coming. I must say, I feel a little jinxed. Every time I come to Jupiter or try to, something happens. Once before, when I was coming there, you may remember, I tore my leg up, and it took me a couple years, but I finally got back there. And I hope I can come back and see you.
I want to thank the Barots for hosting this dinner tonight. I want to thank Congressman Wexler for being there and for being such a good friend and supporter. I want to thank the candidates who are there, my longtime friend Elaine Bloom, Patsy Kurth, Jean Elliott Brown. Thank you for running for Congress.
And I want to tell the young dance troupe how sorry I am I didn't get to see you dance. I looked forward to it, and I hope I can see you dance either here or in Washington at the earliest possible opportunity. But I really thank you for the efforts you made.
And I want to thank all of you who came out tonight to help our House Democrats and our candidates. I feel good about this election, but it's a long way between now and election day and we have to work very, very hard.
I think it should be clear from the campaigns that have been run by the challengers here in Florida what the stakes are and what the differences are. And the only thing I promised myself is that I would do everything I could between now and election day to help us win the House back and to win as many Senate seats as possible. As you know, I'm especially interested in the one in New York.
But I have learned that 8 years of experience teaches that every single Senate seat, every single House seat is profoundly important. We have a different economic policy. We have a different crime policy. We have a different education policy, a different health care policy, a different environmental policy, and we have a very different view about what our relationships with other countries around the world ought to be, and America's responsibilities beyond our borders. And for all these reasons, I think it is imperative that we elect every person we possibly can.
I want to thank those of you who have supported me these last 8 years. It has helped us do the things that we've done in America and, especially, in Florida, from saving the Everglades to moving the Southern Command here to trying to help revive the economy in every part of the State.
I want to thank those of you who have come to our country from other nations and who have made it a stronger, more diverse, more interesting place, far more well prepared for the new century. And I want to urge you to do everything you can, to talk to all your friends, people who would never come to an event like this, between now and election day, about why it's imperative that we keep this economy going and keep paying down the debt; why it's important that we invest in the education of our children and the health care of our seniors; why it's important that we find ways to preserve the environment, even as we grow the economy; and why it's important that we make a safer world for our children.
The Democrats are right on all these issues. And I can tell you that there is a huge difference between having the votes of a majority, and not. And so every one of these people deserves your support. And again, I am profoundly grateful, and I am just sick I'm not there. I really looked forward to being there, and I didn't give up until we had sat on the tarmac for an hour, and the Air Force said there was no way. And they told me it would take over 3 hours to drive there, because the fog is so thick in Miami, you can't see your hand before you.
So I hope you'll give me a raincheck. And I thank you again for being so generous and good and supportive to our candidates for the House.
  