
    When it comes to terrorism, we will do whatever is necessary to protect our Nation.President Donald J. Trump
THE PATH TO VICTORY: President Donald J. Trump is releasing a new National Strategy for Counterterrorism that will protect American citizens and interests at home and abroad.

Today, President Trump is releasing his National Strategy for Counterterrorism, the United States' first robust and fully-articulated strategy on counterterrorism since 2011.
The Administration is outlining a new approach to counter and prevent the evolving terrorist threat, making it clear that we will take all steps necessary to keep our country safe.
President Trump's National Strategy for Counterterrorism focuses on:

Pursuing terrorists to their source;
Isolating terrorists from their sources of support;
Modernizing and integrating the United States' counterterrorism tools;
Protecting American infrastructure and enhancing resilience;
Countering terrorist radicalization and recruitment; and
Strengthening the counterterrorism abilities of our international partners.



A NEW APPROACH: The new strategy builds on lessons learned from past counterterrorism efforts and offers a new path toward strengthening the security of Americans.

The new strategy focuses the United States on countering all terrorists with the intent and ability to harm our country.
The strategy emphasizes the use of all of America's tools to prevent and counter terrorism, strengthening military approaches while delivering a new emphasis on non-military capabilities.

Many United States Government agencies have important roles to play, including our law enforcement, diplomatic, and treasury officials.


The strategy places America first, emphasizing strong borders, strengthening security at points of entry, protecting critical infrastructure, and facilitating preparedness.
However, America First does not mean America alone. The new strategy commits us to expand our partnerships at home and abroad to encourage partners' assistance in counterterrorism activities.

This includes working with our North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) Allies and partners.



DEFEATING TERROR: Thanks to President Trump's leadership, the United States has accelerated efforts to defeat terrorists and protect the United States from global threats.

Under President Trump, the United States and global partners have decimated ISIS and pushed the group to the brink of extinction in Iraq and Syria.

Nearly all of the territory previously held by ISIS has been recaptured.
More than 7.5 million people have been freed from the group's oppressive rule.


At President Trump's urging, NATO members agreed to strengthen the alliance's counterterrorism actions and capabilities.
In December 2017, President Trump issued a new National Security Strategy that focused, in part, on combatting terrorism.

Read the National Strategy for Counterterrorism here.
  