
    President George W. Bush announced the nomination of five individuals to serve in his Administration: David Steele Bohigian, Antonio Fratto, Susan C. Schwab, Ron Silver and Judy Van Rest.
The President nominated David Steele Bohigian, of Missouri, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Market Access and Compliance. Mr. Bohigian currently serves as Assistant to the Secretary and Director of Policy and Strategic Planning at the Department of Commerce. Prior to this, Mr. Bohigian was Deputy Director. Earlier in his career, he held a variety of positions in the private sector including Managing Director for Idealab, Founder and Managing Director for VenCatalyst and Director for Jefferson Partners, LLC. Mr. Bohigian received his bachelor's degree from Washington & Lee University and his JD from Washington University School of Law.
The President nominated Antonio Fratto, of Pennsylvania, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Public Affairs. Mr. Fratto currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Public Affairs, where he previously served as Deputy. He has also served as the Director of Public Affairs and a Public Affairs Specialist for the Department. Earlier in his career, Mr. Fratto was the Vice President of Governmental Affairs for the Pittsburgh Regional Alliance. Mr. Fratto received his bachelor's degree from the University of Pittsburgh.
The President nominated Susan C. Schwab, of Maryland, to be Deputy United States Trade Representative, with the Rank of Ambassador. Dr. Schwab is the President and CEO of the University of Maryland Foundation, Inc. and USM Vice Chancellor for Advancement. Prior to this, Dr. Schwab served as Dean of the University of Maryland School of Public Policy. Earlier in her career, she served as Director of Corporate Business Development for Motorola, Inc. Dr. Schwab also served as Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Director General for the U.S. & Foreign Commercial Service. Dr. Schwab received her bachelor's degree from Williams College, her master's degree from Stanford University and her PhD from George Washi ngton University.
The President nominated the following individuals to be Members of the United States Institute of Peace for the remainder of four-year terms expiring January 19, 2009:
Ron Silver, of New York
Judy Van Rest, of Virginia
  