
    Pool Reports by Brian Bennett, TIME 



Sent:
Reports:




October 21, 202210:04

In-town pool report #1 - Checking in
Greetings from a crisp, cloudless fall morning at the White House. It's about 52 degrees outside.
President Biden is scheduled to give remarks in the Roosevelt Room today at 11 am about deficit reduction.
At 1:10 pm, Biden is slated to depart from the South Lawn for a speech on student debt at Delaware State University, en route to his house in Rehoboth Beach.
That's all for now.



October 21, 202210:57

In-town pool report #2 - pool gathering for deficit remarks
Pool is garhering for Biden's remarks in the Roosevelt Room.



October 21, 202211:56

In-town pool report #3 - remarks
President Biden entered the Roosevelt Room at 11:34 am and stood at the lectern. He spoke for 12 minutes and took three questions (on debt ceiling, Ukraine and midterms).
Some Biden quotes:
"We are rebuilding our roads our bridges our airports."
"The price at the pump is coming down."
Biden announced a "1.4 trillion decline in the deficit" over the past year.
"The largest ever decline in the federal deficit."
"Congressional Republicans love to call Democrats big spenders." "Let's look at the facts."
Biden said that deficits went up under Trump.
"Republicans in Congress are doubling down on their committment to explod the deficit once again." Biden described Republican comments on actions they would take of the GOP takes control of Congress.
Biden: "The Republican plan would add another 3 trillion dollars to the deficit."
Biden on Republicans: "They will crash the economy next year." Biden described starements by Republicans calling for changes to how Congress approves spending for social
Biden: "I will not yield. I will not cut Social Security. I will not cut Medicare."
Biden on Midterms: "Polls have been all over the place. I think we will see one more swing back in our direction." Biden said he thinks that because some of the economic numbers are looking better.
On Republican proposals: "It's mega MAGA trickle down." "That's the choice we're facing."
Will send more quotes in another pool report.



October 21, 202212:13

In-town pool report #4 - more quotes, advisors in the room
Here are more quotes from Biden's remarks in the Roosevelt Room, including his answers to the three questions he took.
Biden on the midterms:
"The back and forth. Them ahead, us ahead. Polls have been all over the place. I think we're going to see one more shift back to our side in the closing days. Let me tell you why I think that. We are starting to see some of the good news on the economy. Gas prices are down sharply in 46 of 50 states because of what I've been doing. We're moving in the right direction and there's more to come. State unemployment today, state unemployment is at all time lows in 11 states and 17 states have unemployment rates under 2%. New deficit numbers: there's a record, a record decrease. That's never happened before."
Question: On the debt ceiling, do you support the permanent repeal of the debt ceiling? No debt limit?
Biden: "No, that would be irresponsible."
Question: You heard the Republicans, do you have the means and the will to continue supporting Ukraine?
Biden: Yes, because if we're supporting Ukraine, we're supporting all of Europe, we're supporting NATO. You think that Mr. Putin decides he's just going to deal with Ukraine and that's the end of it? No, I don't understand the threat that they're saying they may have to stop funding the Ukrainians in their war against this brutal dictator.
Question: On the midterms sir, last night, you said you need 53 not 51 votes to pass your agenda. What do you mean by that, were you referring to Manchin and Sinema?
Biden: "No, I just think the more we have the more -- 51 just gives us one more, I'd like to have three more. It would make it a lot easier."
Here is C-SPAN video of Biden's remarks: https://www.c-span.org/video/?523757-1/president-calls-gop-agenda-mega-m...
From the White House:
The President is delivering remarks on the historic deficit reduction his economic plan is achieving
In AttendanceDirector Shalanda Young, Office of Management and BudgetChair Cecilia Rouse, Council of Economic AdvisersBrian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council



October 21, 202212:34

In-town pool report #5 - correct Biden quote - 17 states have unemployment rates under 3%
Fixing this quote from Biden during his remarks (He said 3%, not 2%, as I quoted earlier)
Biden on the midterms:
"State unemployment today, state unemployment is at all time lows in 11 states and 17 states have unemployment rates under 3%."
(****Not 2%)



October 21, 202214:00

In-town pool report #6 - Biden departure, a few questions
Biden walked out of the South Portico at 1:35 pm. He stopped and shook hands and greeted people gathered at the rope line on the driveway off the South Lawn.
Reporters waved him over. He took a handful of questions and give short answers. It was very hard to hear over the helicopter.
Fox's Peter Doocy asked about how big an issue crime is ahead of the midterms. Biden: "I think it's a real issue and I think we have a great record on it."
Biden was asked if Boris Johnson returns to power in the UK, what that would mean for US relations. Biden replied that is a question for the British. "That's a British decision."
Biden was also asked about the Bannon sentencing. He said: "I never have a reaction to Steve Bannon."
He was asked if he agrees with his policies on gender policies and bathrooms. Biden said: "I stand by my policies."
Helicopter lifted off at around 1:45 pm.
Handing off to the out of town pool.



October 21, 202214:04

In town pool report #7 - travelers on Marine One
From the White House---
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretarySusan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy AdvisorKeisha Lance Bottoms, Senior Advisor to the President for Public Engagement




 
Pool Reports below by Geoff Earle, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




October 21, 202214:01

Supplemental (out of town) travel pool No. 1, Oct. 21
Potus got out of M1 at JBA at 1:56 pm, a bit behind schedule. He saluted his greeter.
He then walked to the jetway of AF1, saluting again. He ignored or didn’t hear shouted questions, including on Trump subpoena. Then saluted a third time at the top.
Col. William McDonald was greeter.
Next stop: Dover
KJP will gaggle en route.



October 21, 202214:36

Supplemental out of town pool report 2
KJP gaggled for much of the low-altitude flight.
It should have streamed on WH site, but she briefly addressed subpoena, Iran, Potus travel, and Saudi, with a week-ahead.
AF1 touched down before 2:30pm.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Dover Airforce Base:
Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretarySusan Rice, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy AdvisorOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior AdvisorAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTara Murray, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Public EngagementKeisha Lance Bottoms, Senior Advisor to the President for Public EngagementCurtis Ried, Chief of Staff & Executive Secretary for the National Security Council



October 21, 202214:43

Supplemental pool 3
Potus came out and welcomed home state Sens Carper and Coons, plus Lisa Blunt Rochester aboard AF1. Also the mayor, Robin Christiansen.
They are in the cabin now.



October 21, 202214:55

Supplemental pool report 4
Potus re-emerged at 2:49 pm. The Delaware lawmakers exited the cabin separately before him and jumped onto a White Ford Transit.
Carper sported a pocket handkerchief and canvas sneakers.
Potus ignored a second question on the J6, subpoena, and entered the Beast.
Motorcade is rolling. Estimated 15 mins to Delaware State.



October 21, 202215:22

Supplemental pool 5
Motorcade arrived at 3:05 outside the Delaware State U Bank of America building.
Pool did not see Potus on arrival.
We came in through a back door into the Education and Humanities theater. There look to be about 1,000 here, but will seek crowd count.
There is a group of people on stage with a podium (no seal yet), state flag, and US flag. Program is starting, and streamed.
Delegation is providing introductions.
Greeting the President on arrival at Dover Airforce Base:
Colonel Matthew Housemann, Winged CommanderSenator Tom Carper (DE)Senator Chris Coons (DE)Congresswoman Lisa Blunt Rochester (DE-At large)Mayor Robin Christiansen, Mayor of Dover (DE)



October 21, 202216:10

Supplemental pool 6, remarks end and holding
Potus wrapped his remarks at 4pm, then began greeting students behind him.
Pool moved while band was still playing "Stars and Stripes" and potus was still on stage.
Pool is holding in vans.
Washington Post writer and tv commentator Jonathan Capehart was on AF1, and he will be conducting an interview with Potus.



October 21, 202216:37

Supplemental pool 7, short ride
Motorcade rolled at 4:30 for a short ride of about 3 mins to another building on campus.
Agents got out of the black SUV up front and entered a white tent, where Potus is presumably conducting the interview. (Pool did not see Potus.)
Pool is holding in the van.



October 21, 202217:18

Supplemental pool 8 - rolling
Motorcade started rolling to Dover AFB at 5:16 pm.



October 21, 202217:40

Supplemental pool 9 - M1 liftoff
Motorcade arrived at the air base at 5:32 pm.
SUV was already up at Marine 1.
M1 lifted at 5:37.
Per the WH, there were 900 people at the event.
Handing off to the regular out of town pool, who will be in lovely Rehoboth.
Thanks to co-pooler Andrew Restuccia.
Have a great weekend all.




 
Pool Reports below by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




October 21, 202217:56

Travel pool #1/Rehoboth
The travel pool is at Gordons Pond at Cape Henlopen State Park, awaiting arrival of Marine One from Dover.
Pool bus departed the White House at 12:30p and arrived in Rehoboth Beach, Delaware, at 3:45p.
Another presidential SUV awaits.
The sun is low in the sky and the pool, positioned on a dune overlooking the beachside parking lot-turned-landing zone.



October 21, 202218:09

Travel pool #2/Rehoboth arrival
Marine One and two escort helicopters came into view at 5:58 pm.
The president's helicopter touched down at 6pm in the parking lot/landing zone at Whiskey Beach near Gordons Pond in the Cape Henlopen State Park.
It is 59 degrees and breezy. A Delaware State Police SUV led a small motorcade that pulled alongside Marine One. President Biden walked off at 6:04pm, saluted the Marines on the pavement, and got into his SUV.
The sun was hidden by the trees inland from the pool's dune vantage point by the time the motorcade rolled at 6:06.
Pool is not in the motorcade to the president's house nearby. The last vehicle was out of view by 6:08.



October 21, 202218:32

Travel pool #3/Rehoboth lid
A lid was declared as the travel pool arrived at its motel in Rehoboth Beach at 6:30pm.
At about 6:12pm, Marine One and the second chopper lifted off from the Cape Henlopen State Park parking lot and headed south along the shore and out of sight. By this time the sun was fully set.
More tomorrow.



October 21, 202218:52

Travel pool #4/POTUS in Rehoboth.
From the Press Office:The President arrived at the residence at 6:09 pm.
And icymi, we've had a lid since 6:30.




  