
    California SEIU members choose Edwards because he has the strength and vision to win both the primary and the general election and bring real change to Washington
Endorsement gives Edwards support of over 3 million working families
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, the California State Council of the Service Employees International Union (SEIU) will hold an event in downtown Los Angeles to formally announce their endorsement of John Edwards for president. The endorsement of the California SEIU, combined with Edwards' SEIU endorsements from the ten other state SEIU councils announced earlier this week, brings Edwards above the three million member mark in union support.
"California SEIU members know that John Edwards will be the best labor president in the history of the United States," said Sal Rosselli, president of SEIU United Healthcare Workers West. "His proposals are far and away the best among the candidates on the issues that matter most to working Americans. Edwards has taken principled stands on workers' behalf, when others took more cautious positions on issues that demand bold action."
Added Tyrone Freeman, president of United Long-Term Care Workers West, "John Edwards is the only Democratic candidate with the vision, leadership and strength needed to win, not just the primary but also the general election. In the battleground states that I represent, Edwards' broad appeal and strength at the top of the ticket will help Democrats in races at every level. He will help us build a true mandate that will bring real change to Washington, end the war in Iraq, bring truly universal health care, labor law and immigration reform – and these are the things that will improve the lives of working families across America."
"SEIU is at the forefront of the fight to make work pay and provide economic security to hardworking families. I have proudly stood with them on the frontlines of the fight for working Americans for years, and I am honored to earn their members' support in the State of California along with so many others," said Edwards. "Together, I believe we can fix the broken system in Washington that has been rigged by corporate interests, and we can make this country work for regular Americans again."
"We need a truly universal coverage in health care, and we need it now," Edwards continued. "Every American must have quality, affordable health care. The time has come for a universal health care reform that covers everyone, cuts costs, and provides better care. Affordability is key and it means more than just premiums. It means creating a system where families get comprehensive coverage at a fair price. A health plan with a $5,000 deductible is an outrage. We can and must do better."
Last Monday at an event in Iowa City, SEIU state councils from Iowa, California, Washington, Idaho, Montana, Minnesota, Michigan, West Virginia, Ohio and Oregon announced their endorsement of Edwards. In addition, the SEIU state council from Massachusetts voted to endorse Edwards on Thursday. The endorsements will allow these 11 SEIU state councils, which collectively represent over 1 million members, to organize efforts to turn out caucus goers on Edwards' behalf within Iowa, and in any other state where the SEIU state councils have also endorsed Edwards.
In September, Edwards earned the endorsement of the Transport Workers Union of America (200,000 active and retired members), the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America (520,000 active members), the United Steelworkers (1.2 million active members and retirees), and the United Mine Workers of America (105,000 active members and retirees).
  