
    
  Medal of Honor Recipient to Chair Candidate's Advisory Group

McLean, VA - In a strong signal of growing organizational strength in the early primary state of South Carolina, Fred Thompson today announced his South Carolina Steering Committee. Chaired by Medal of Honor recipient Major General James E. Livingston, USMC (Ret.), the committee reflects the full spectrum of conservatives from across the state.
"Fred is proud to have this team of strong conservatives join him in his effort and looks forward to them playing an important role alongside Congressman Gresham Barrett and our entire regional and county leadership team," said Dean Rice, South Carolina Campaign Manager.
In accepting the chairmanship of the committee, Major General Livingston said, "These are very serious times and we need a president with moral credibility who can lead with authority on social, economic and national security fronts. We need a leader who can inspire our nation to rise to the challenges that face us and that leader is Fred Thompson."
Vice Chairs include Kirkman Finlay III of Columbia, Phyllis Henderson of Greenville, Ed McMullen of Columbia, Cyndi Mosteller of Charleston, Wendy Nanney of Greenville, and Randy Page of Lexington.
Kirkman Finlay, III is a member of the Columbia City Council. He is a noted businessman and entrepreneur in the Columbia area and a member of the Board of Carolina National Bank.
Phyllis Henderson is former Chair of Greenville County Council and an experienced Republican activist whose past work has included managing Jim DeMint's successful 1998 congressional campaign.
Edward T. McMullen, Jr. is president of the South Carolina Policy Council Education Foundation. He served on the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education, as well as Governor Sanford's transition task force and as the Director of Development Research at the Heritage Foundation in Washington, D.C.
Cyndi Mosteller is the former Chair of the Charleston County Republican Party and former First Vice-Chair of the State Republican Party. In 2000, she was a National Advisor on Life Issues to the McCain for President campaign and is a past president of South Carolina Citizens for Life. She is also Governor Sanford's at-large appointee to the South Carolina Commission on Higher Education.
Wendy Nanney is the immediate past Chair of the Greenville County Republican Party, a well-respected Upstate Republican activist and alumnus of Bob Jones University.
Randy Page is president of South Carolinians for Responsible Government. Mr. Page has a long history of public service in the executive branch of state government, including as the former Chief of Staff to Lieutenant Governor Andre Bauer, and former member of Governor David Beasley's staff. Mr. Page is actively involved in a number of pro-family, pro-life organizations, including serving on the Board of the Palmetto Family Council. Randy is an alumnus of Bob Jones University.
Other members of the Steering Committee include:


Lin Bennett, Chair of the Charleston County Republican Party.
Phillip Bowers , Chair of the Pickens County Republican Party.
Arthur Bryngleson, Chair of the Dorchester County Republican Party.
State Senator Chip Campsen , District 43; Berkeley and Charleston Counties.
State Representative Harry Cato, Chair of the House Labor, Commerce and Industry (LCI) Committee; District 17, Greenville County.
State Senator Ray Cleary, District 34; Georgetown, Horry, and Charleston Counties.
Chad Connelly, Board Member of the Palmetto Family Council and South Carolinians for Responsible Government.
Stephen Davis, Principal and Project Manager for Davis & Floyd, Inc. He is a member of the Erskine College Board of Trustees, and the South Carolina Department of Natural Resources from the Third Congressional District.
Robert Dozier, Chair of the Board of Trustees of Midlands Technical College. He is a former Director of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta, appointed by the Bush Administration. He is also the Chief Operating Officer and Managing Director of the Homeowners Mortgage Company and was named one of The State's "20 under 40" most successful businessmen in 2004.
Brantlee Fulmer , President of a multi-facility, faith-oriented day care business. She is a past Vice President of the South Carolina Child Care Association.
State Senator Larry Grooms , Chair of the Senate Transportation Committee; District 37, Berkeley, Charleston, Colleton and Dorchester Counties.
Todd Kincannon , South Carolina Republican Party Parliamentarian.
Hunter Limbaugh , former advisor to Governors Carroll Campbell and David Beasley. He is also a former legislator, having represented the Florence area in the State House in the 1990s.
State Representative Dwight Loftis, District 19; Greenville. Representative Loftis is also a former member of the Greenville County School Board.
Larry Marchant, former advisor to Governor Carroll Campbell and principal of the Palmetto Policy Group in Columbia.
Taft Matney , a small businessman specializing in government relations with long-time ties to conservative grassroots political efforts.
State Senator Jim Ritchie , Senate Majority Whip from District 13; Spartanburg, Greenville, and Union Counties.
Terrye Seckinger , member of the South Carolina Charter Schools Board who has previously served as a member of the State Board of Education and is widely recognized as a leading social conservative.

  