
    United States Joined by 13 Countries and European Union to Coordinate on Near-Term Bottlenecks and Long-Term Challenges
Today, President Biden hosted a Summit on Global Supply Chain Resilience with the European Union and 14 like-minded countries to foster greater international cooperation on near-term supply chain disruptions and chart a course to strengthen and diversify the entire supply chain ecosystem over the long term. The President also announced new domestic steps he will take to continue building supply chain resilience, including a new Executive Order to streamline U.S. stockpiling efforts; increased funding for trade facilitation activities to cut red tape; and Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo will hold a multi-stakeholder summit next year.
See below for what they are saying:
Reuters: Biden calls on world leaders to help address global supply-chain woes. U.S. President Joe Biden on Sunday called on other world leaders to take action to reduce supply-chain problems and prevent them from happening in the future. Biden, speaking to fellow leaders gathered for the G20 summit in Rome, also laid out new steps his administration is taking to address the issue at home.
CNBC: Biden rallies world leaders at G-20 to help address global supply chain issues. The leaders agreed to strengthen and diversify the entire supply-chain ecosystem.The White House has previously said that the administration continues to press on ways to address issues in the supply chain causing global commerce disruptions.
CNN: Biden looks for solutions to supply chain crisis on the final day of G20 [Biden] said to the group of world leaders at the event: "I urge all of you ... to consider bolstering your stockpiles critical to national security in your countries. But like so many of our challenges today, it isn't a problem any one of our nations can solve through unilateral actions. Coordination is key." Biden said the real way to solve the supply bottlenecks would be ending the coronavirus pandemic, arguing that it's "the ultimate key to unlocking the disruptions."
Bloomberg: Biden Announces New Steps to Address Supply-Chain Disruptions: President Joe Biden took several steps to address supply-chain problems as he met leaders from major global economies, including the European Union, to address recent disruptions… "Solving this is going to take all of us -- government and private industry, labor unions and research institutions," Biden told reporters as he convened a meeting of international leaders in Rome.
AP: Biden unveils new steps to strengthen global supply chains. President Joe Biden on Sunday unveiled several new steps the U.S. is taking to strengthen and streamline supply chains as he convened world leaders at the Group of 20 summit to discuss the bottlenecks hampering the global economy as it recovers from the coronavirus pandemic. Biden is viewing the issue through a global lens, offering new funding and processes to help ports in Mexico, Central America and Asia as one of his proposals.
Axios: Biden talks supply chain challenges with world leaders on final day of G20. President Biden convened with leaders of the world's largest economies Sunday to address supply chain disruptions and strategize how to fortify the entire "ecosystem over the long term."…The president discussed how each county could identify and resolve "bottlenecks," adding that greater coordination among countries is needed to strengthen the supply chain…The Biden administration has introduced several initiatives domestically to address ongoing disruptions to the supply chain, ranging from issuing executive orders to expanding port operating hours.
  