
    The President's Management Council Works To Improve Programs And Leave Government Better Than We Found It
Today, The Office Of Management And Budget Released The President's Management Council's Annual Report, Giving Examples Of The Progress On Management Improvement Efforts Initiated In 2001 With The President's Management Agenda (PMA). The Government has strengthened management practices; increased government transparency and accountability; and improved program performance. The President's Management Council is committed to work even more aggressively to improve government effectiveness.
Improving Performance And Efficiency
More Agencies Than Ever Are Effectively Incorporating Program Performance Information Into Their Management And Budget Decisions.


    Clearer Definitions Of Program Success Produce Intended Results. According to the PMA Scorecard, 73 percent of programs are focusing on and achieving clear goals today, up from an estimated 45 percent in 2003. For example:
    

Better Quality Multi-Family Housing. HUD focused more on the physical quality standards for multi-family housing units, improving units meeting the standards from 86 percent in 2000 to 94 percent in 2004.
      
Improved Military Housing. With clear goals and milestones, DOD partnered with the private sector to improve military housing, privatizing 141,922 units of housing, and is on track to eliminate all inadequate housing by 2007.
      
Saving Lives. DOT reduced the fatality rate from car accidents after targeting its promotion of seat belt use on most at-risk audiences.



Giving The American People Better Results For Their Money
Improved Accountability, Clearer Outcome Performance Metrics, Accurate Financial Information For Timely And Wise Decisions, And Targeted Competitive Pressure On Commercial Costs Allow For Savings And Better Performance.


    PMA Results In Quantifiable Savings:

Eliminated $7.8 billion in improper payments;
Disposed of $3.5 billion in unneeded property; and
Saving $900 million a year through public-private competitions for Federal contracts.





    Improved IT Management Saves Money. Aggressive, targeted investments in well-managed information technology will extend the abilities of our employees to provide better service to our citizens at lower cost. For example:

DOE modernized its IT infrastructure, including strengthening IT security and integrating systems, with projected savings of more than $450 million over seven years;
IRS will produce its tax forms digitally and consolidate form distribution centers at a savings to the taxpayer of $108 million over five years;
Consolidation of payroll systems at HHS reduced annual costs of payroll processing by almost $11 million; and
Efficiency improvements to the EPA vendor payment process are expected to save $3.5 million (34%) over the next five years.



Greater Accountability Improves Government Effectiveness
President Bush Has Consistently Focused On Improved Transparency, Accountability, And Better Management Practices Across The Federal Government. Greater transparency has made agencies more accountable for program performance and more responsive to the American public.

ExpectMore.gov: To date, the Administration has evaluated the effectiveness of nearly every Federal program. Making this information more accessible has increased the debate and discussion regarding how to improve program effectiveness.

The PMA Scorecard, Found On Results.gov: Since 2002, this Web site tracks agencies' progress in meeting their management improvement goals.
  