
    Mr. President:
It is a very great pleasure to welcome you and your very lovely First Lady at the White House on this occasion, and because I know that this company and all of those who will be listening in the press room below are more interested in what you will be saying than what I will be saying, my remarks will be brief.
But first let me say that perhaps my greatest expert on foreign affairs is not really Dr. Kissinger, but my wife. And after she was able to take a trip to Africa, which I have been Wanting to take and I, incidentally, Dr. Kissinger, intend to take before my term of office is finished--the first American President ever to visit Africa--Mrs. Nixon came back with very warm feelings for all the countries she had visited, but she had a very special feeling about Ivory Coast, and its President and its First Lady.
She said that the President was a man who not only was handling the affairs of his country well but who had a great grasp of the problems of the world. And she said that his First Lady was, among all the first ladies she had met in the world, one of the most gracious, the most beautiful and--to a woman this is important, and to a man also--the best dressed.
Now, to be very serious for a moment, before introducing the President to this assemblage, people wonder what happens when the President of Ivory Coast and the President of' the United States sit down for an hour and a half and talk. Now, we both agree that we talked about cocoa and coffee and reverse preferences and international trade problems, and other bilateral matters, like whether Kaiser should or should not invest in Ivory Coast--and they should--but what, it seems to me, is particularly important about this visit is that while we covered all the bilateral problems very 'thoroughly and found that we had very little to disagree about, that the President was able to convey to me an understanding of not only the problems of his own country and the problems of the new African states but an understanding of his view of the world.
In other words, we have in our company tonight--and I wish all of you could know him as I have known him, as my wife has known him--a world statesman of the first rank, a man who has demonstrated by his leadership capabilities that he knows what it takes 'to take a new country and to give it the stability, the drive, and the spirit that will. make it a major force in that area of the world, but also a man who does not think of his own country as just an island, who is not parochial, as are too many of the leaders in the world today, but one who sees the whole world, as one who realizes that what happens 5,000 miles away in India and Pakistan affects him, as one who sees that what happens in the Mideast affects him and his people, as one who sees that what happens in any part of the world affects his country, although it is very easy to become obsessed with your own problems.
And for that reason, tonight I know that all of you--not only because we admire our distinguished guest for his leadership of his own country, with the best record of national growth and per capita income of any of the nations of black Africa, but also because he has demonstrated that he has that rare ability to see beyond the problems of the moment and look to the problems of the future, to see beyond the geographical problems that involve only his own island as it exists in the West Coast of Africa, and see beyond and see the whole world, because he is, truly, one whose views on the world scene can affect the world--it is for this reason that this house is honored for the third time to have him as our guest.
And so in presenting him to you, I present a man who represents his own country with great distinction, a man who is also one who understands and is a great advocate of the problems of the new Africa and where it must go, but also one who, when he comes to America, is able to speak with great understanding and great wisdom about those problems that, wherever 'they exist in this world, will affect the future of his country and the future of ours. To a world statesman of the first rank, the President of the Ivory Coast, President Houphouet-Boigny.
  