
    During major thematic address, Edwards promises to take on special interests and deliver the promise of America
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – Today, after officially filing papers to be on the New Hampshire primary ballot, Senator John Edwards will deliver a major thematic speech at Saint Anselm College in Manchester, New Hampshire. Edwards will make the case that our government is failing to live up to the American people, and as a result, we are in danger of being the first generation not to pass on a better America to our children. Edwards will define the choice voters face – to allow the powerful special interests to continue to corrupt our country or to choose a new path that will deliver the promise of America.
Excerpts of Edward's address are included below:
"It's time to tell the truth. And, the truth is the system in Washington is corrupt. It is rigged by the powerful special interests to benefit they very few at the expense of the many. And, as a result, the American people have lost faith in our broken system in Washington, and believe it no longer works for ordinary Americans. They're right.
"Being called president while powerful interests really run things is not the same as being free to lead this nation as president of a government of the people, by the people, and for the people.
***
"For the first time in our nation's history, people are worried that we're going to be the first generation of Americans not to pass on a better life to our children.
"And it's not the fault of the American people. The American people have not changed. The American people are still the strong, courageous people they have always been. The problem is what our government has become.
***
"It is not an accident that the government of the United States cannot function on behalf of its people – because it is no longer our people's government and we the people know it.
"This corruption did not begin yesterday -- and it did not even begin with George Bush – it has been building for decades – until it now threatens literally the life of our democracy.
***
"The long slow slide of our democracy into the corporate abyss continues unabated regardless of party, regardless of the best interests of America.
"We have a duty – a duty to end this.
"I believe you cannot be for change and take money from the lobbyists who prevent change. You cannot take on the entrenched interests in Washington if you choose to defend the broken system. It will not work. And I believe that, if Americans have a choice, any candidate who takes their money – Democrat or Republican – will lose this election.
***
"This is our time now. It falls to use to redeem our democracy, reclaim our government and relight the promise of America for our children.
"Let us blaze a new path together, grounded in the values from which America was forged, still reaching toward the greatness of our ideals. We can do it. We can cast aside the bankrupt ways of Washington and replace them with the timeless values of the American people. We can liberate our government from the shackles of corporate money that bind it to corporate will, and restore the voices of our people to its halls.
"This is the cause of my life. This is the cause of our time. Join me. Together, we cannot fail. We will keep faith with those who have gone before us, strong and proud in the knowledge that we too rose up to guard the promise of America in our day, and that, because we did, America's best days still lie ahead."
  