
    The Clinton campaign announced today the endorsement of Congresswoman Hilda L. Solis (CA-32), adding to the strong list of support from Latino leaders that Hillary Clinton has received. Congresswoman Solis will serve as Co-Chair of the campaign's Environmental and Energy Task Force and as Co-Chair of the National Hispanic Leadership Council.
"I have been following all the candidates closely and I am convinced that I am choosing the candidate with the experience and strength to bring the change that America needs," said Solis. "Her commitment to promoting policies to develop alternative energy technologies and fighting global warming are only two of the many issues in which Hillary has shown her ability to lead. Senator Clinton also has a long record of working on issues that are important to women and to Latino families, such as education, health care and economic empowerment. I look forward to working to help elect Hillary the next President of the United States."
Congresswoman Solis was first elected to Congress in 2000. Prior to her election, she served two years in the California Assembly and in 1994 became the first Latina elected to the California State Senate. The first Latina to serve as Co-Chair of the Congressional Caucus for Women's Issues, she is a nationally recognized leader on issues important to women and children, particularly health care. As a leader on environmental issues, she has fought tirelessly to protect the families against harmful pollutants. In 2000 she became the first woman to receive the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award for her groundbreaking work on environmental justice issues in California.
In 2003, Solis became the first Latina appointed to the powerful Committee on Energy and Commerce where she is the Vice Chair of the Environment and Hazardous Materials Subcommittee and a member of the Health and Telecommunications Subcommittees. She is also a member of the House Committee on Natural Resources. In March 2007, Solis was named a member of the newly created House Select Committee on Energy Independence and Global Warming. She also serves as a Senior Whip and is Co-Vice Chair of the House Democratic Steering & Policy Committee, Senior Whip and Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Task Force on Health and the Environment.
"I am grateful to receive Rep. Solis' support. She has been a pioneer on environmental justice issues, and an outspoken advocate on behalf of women and families," said Clinton. "Her expertise will be invaluable to my campaign and I am excited to have her on board."
  