
    Gains Support of North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson, Senate and House Democratic Leaders and a Majority of the Democratic Members of Both Houses
Chapel Hill, North Carolina – The John Edwards for President campaign announced today that 38 prominent Democratic leaders in North Dakota endorsed Senator John Edwards for president. Among those endorsing Edwards are North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson, North Dakota Senate Minority Leader David O'Connell, North Dakota House Minority Leader Merle Boucher, and the majority of Democratic members in each chamber of the Legislature.
"I am honored to have the support of these outstanding leaders," said Edwards. "They work hard each day to represent the values of North Dakota's working and middle class families and I am proud to have them involved in my campaign." North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson said: "John Edwards will fight to improve the lives of middle class North Dakotans and working Americans. He understands that creating fairness for family farmers is part of building the middle class and moving America forward. I am proud to endorse him."
Senate Minority Leader David O'Connell commented: "As we work to take back the North Dakota Senate, I am proud to have John Edwards as a partner in bringing hope and prosperity to all Americans. The majority of Democrats from both chambers agree that John Edwards is the strongest presidential candidate in the field. He relates to our values and can communicate with the people of our state."
House Minority Leader Merle Boucher added: "North Dakota legislators representing both rural and urban areas from across the state are united behind John Edwards' candidacy. We believe he is the best candidate to move our party and our nation forward."
The 38 prominent Democratic leaders in North Dakota supporting John Edwards for president are:
Statewide officials:
North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner Roger Johnson
Senate endorsers:
Senate Minority Leader David O'Connell
Sen. Arden Anderson
Sen. Art Behm
Sen. Joan Heckaman
Sen. Richard Marsellais
Sen. Tim Mathern
Sen. Tracy Potter
Sen. Tom Seymour
Sen. Harvey Tallackson
Sen. Constance Triplett
Sen. John Warner
House endorsers:
House Minority Leader Merle Boucher
Rep. Ole Aarsvold
Rep. Tracy Boe
Rep. Rod Froelich
Rep. Chris Griffin
Rep. Ed Gruchalla
Rep. Lyle Hanson
Rep. Bob Hunskor
Rep. Lee Kaldor
Rep. Jim Kerzman
Rep. Joe Kroeber
Rep. Ralph Metcalf
Rep. Arlo Schmidt
Rep. Jasper Schneider
Rep. Dorvan Solberg
Rep. Elwood Thorpe
Rep. Clark Williams
Rep. Steve Zaiser
Notable Democrats:
Sarah Vogel, Former North Dakota Agriculture Commissioner
Bruce Hagen, Former North Dakota Public Service Commissioner
Brent Edison, 2006 Dem-NPL Candidate for North Dakota Tax Commissioner
Jim Fuglie, Former Executive Director, North Dakota Dem-NPL Party
Max Laird, Former President of North Dakota Education Association
Dem-NPL State Party Treasurer Tim Purdon
State Dem-NPL Executive Committee Regional Rep. Nancy Gooch
State Dem-NPL Executive Committee Regional Rep. Chad Nodland
  