
    I WELCOME the passage by the Congress of S. 2230, which provides for a partial lifting of the embargo on U.S. arms for Turkey. This action is an essential first step in the process of rebuilding a relationship of trust and friendship with valued friends and allies in the Eastern Mediterranean.
The Congressional vote reflects a cooperative effort with the Senate and House of Representatives on the difficult question of Cyprus and the vital task of restoring stability and security along NATO's strategically important southern flank.
With the partial lifting of the embargo, I intend to take action in four broad areas in the weeks ahead.
First, we will seek to rebuild our security relationship with Turkey to underscore that Turkey's membership in the Western Alliance and partnership with the United States serve the very important interest of both nations.
Second, we will make a major effort to encourage resumption of the Cyprus negotiations and to facilitate progress by the parties involved---Greece, Turkey, and Cyprus--toward a peaceful and equitable settlement of this dispute. In this connection, we will fulfill whatever role the parties themselves want us to play in achieving a settlement acceptable to all. In accordance with S. 2230, I will submit to the Congress within 60 days of enactment a report on progress made in reaching a solution to the Cyprus problem.
Third, the Administration will intensify cooperation with appropriate international humanitarian agencies to find ways to alleviate the suffering of the many people displaced as a result of the 1974 hostilities. The plight of these unfortunate people makes progress towards solution of the Cyprus problem all the more important.
Finally, the Administration intends to provide support to the democratic Government of Greece. In that regard, we will pursue efforts to help that country overcome its current economic and security problems. Also in compliance with S. 2230, I will submit within 60 days my recommendations for assistance to Greece for fiscal year 1976.
Our goals in the Eastern Mediterranean in the months ahead--to help the parties involved achieve a Cyprus settlement, to rebuild a relationship of trust and friendship with both Greece and Turkey, to alleviate the suffering on Cyprus, and to meet Greece's needs for assistance--are objectives on which we all can agree. Let us now join in working together to achieve them.
  