
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 28
Edward J. Damich,
of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice James F. Merow, term expired.
Nancy B. Firestone,
of Virginia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Moody R. Tidwell III, term expired.
Emily Clark Hewitt,
of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims for a term of 15 years, vice Robert J. Yock, term expired.
Alex R. Munson,
of the Northern Mariana Islands, to be Judge for the District Court for the Northern Mariana Islands for a term of 10 years (reappointment). Submitted September 29
Albert S. Jacquez,
of California, to be Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation for a term of 7 years, vice Gail Clements McDonald, resigned.
Jeffrey S. Merrifield,
of New Hampshire, to be a member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term expiring June 30, 2002, vice Kenneth C. Rogers, term expired.
Ira G. Peppercorn,
of Indiana, to be Director of the Office of Multifamily Housing Assistance Restructuring (new position).
Ashish Sen,
of Illinois, to be Director of the Bureau of Transportation Statistics, Department of Transportation, for the term of 4 years, vice Triruvarur R. Lakshmanan, resigned.
Isadore Rosenthal,
of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years (new position). Submitted September 30
Kenneth W. Kizer,
of California, to be Under Secretary for Health of the Department of Veterans Affairs for a term of 4 years (reappointment).
Richard A. Grafmeyer,
of Maryland, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for the remainder of the term expiring September 30, 2000, vice Harlan Matthews resigned.
Gerald M. Shea,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2004 (reappointment). Submitted October 1
Harry J. Bowie,
of Mississippi, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of 3 years, vice Tony Scallon, term expired.
Phyllis K. Fong,
of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Small Business Administration, vice James F. Hoobler.
  