
    Ads Highlight Urgency Around Winning the Battle for the Soul of the Nation and Unifying the Country
Today, Biden for President is debuting closing message ads that will air nationwide throughout the final week of the election, underscoring the key themes that have defined Joe Biden's campaign and showcasing to Americans his unwavering commitment to restoring the soul of the nation and unifying the country. In two separate minute-long spots, Jill and Joe Biden each speak directly to viewers and make a closing argument to voters about the stakes of the election and why Vice President Biden will rise to the moment.
In "Rising," Joe Biden reiterates a preeminent pillar of his entire campaign: that we are in a battle for the soul of the nation, which he believes to be even truer today. Vice President Biden underscores that this election defines America and the election presents an opportunity to put the darkness of the past four years behind us and choose hope over fear, unity over division, and science over fiction. Vice President Biden asks Americans for their vote and pledges to unite the country, noting how we have never been unable to do anything when we've done it together.
Watch "Rising" HERE.
Additionally, Jill Biden narrates a spot called "In the Dark" and tells viewers about meeting Vice President Biden, the personal tragedies he overcame, and how his faith guided him throughout his life and career. Dr. Biden notes it helped him channel his grief into purpose and give him the strength to fight for other families, and she asserts that Vice President Biden will bring families together, find darkness in the light, and give our country hope.
Watch "In the Dark" HERE.
In addition to other ads that remain on the air, these closing messages ads will maintain a significant presence on digital and national cable and broadcast stations between now and Election Day, including running key markets across 16 battleground states: Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Maine, Michigan, Minnesota, Nebraska, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Virginia, and Wisconsin.
  