
    Hillary Clinton released the following statement after the National Education Association (NEA) endorsed her campaign for President. With nearly 3 million members, the NEA joins the American Federation of Teachers and unions representing over 6 million workers in endorsing Clinton.**
"As a lifelong fighter for children and families, I am deeply honored to have earned the endorsement of the National Education Association and their nearly 3 million members.
"The teachers and educators of the NEA shape our future. By opening new horizons for children, they spark new ideas, innovations, and industries. Our educators are the frontline fighters building a stronger and more prosperous America–and I know it is not an easy job. NEA members work hard every day to provide the education and support our children need to grow and prosper. I know from personal experience that a teacher can make a profound difference in a child's life. My mother had a difficult and painful childhood, and when she didn't have enough to eat, her first-grade teacher noticed–and quietly shared her own lunch. Decades later, I am grateful to that teacher every day.
"I've stood with educators throughout my career–from my early days working at the Children's Defense Fund to my success creating a new teacher recruitment program in the Senate. As President, I will fight to defend workers' right to organize and unions' right to bargain collectively, and I will ensure that teachers always have a voice and a seat at the table in making decisions that impact their work. I will fight to raise incomes and to ensure that hardworking Americans can retire with dignity and security. We have to make sure that every family in America doesn't just survive, but thrives. I'm honored to stand with the National Education Association to support teachers and education support professionals and grow our economy."
The National Education Association (NEA) follows The Operative Plasterers' and Cement Masons' International Association (OPCMIA), United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, United Union of Roofers, Waterproofers and Allied Workers, the American Federation of Teachers, the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers, the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers, and the United Association of Journeymen and Apprentices of the Plumbing and Pipefitting Industry in backing Clinton.
  