
    
  "Better Positioned To Get The Economy Moving" ... "A Seasoned, Strategic And Mature Public Policy Mind" ... "Highly Qualified"

New Hampshire Union Leader: "Romney Offers A Better Way, A Realistic Way, To Restore American Prosperity."  "Obama had four years — half of them with a Democratic majority in Congress — to try his way. Romney offers a better way, a realistic way, to restore American prosperity. We tried the fantasy. It did not work. Now it is time to stop dreaming and start growing again." (Editorial, "Why Mitt? Reality Over Fantasy," New Hampshire Union Leader, 10/21/12)
Lowell Sun: "Romney Has Faced Economic Challenges At Key Points In His Professional And Political Careers And Has Always Seemed To Grow In The Job To Deliver Greater Expectations Than When He Went In." "Romney has faced economic challenges at key points in his professional and political careers and has always seemed to grow in the job to deliver greater expectations than when he went in. President Obama, on the other hand, lacked any prior experience before entering the White House in 2008 and appears overwhelmed by the one serious economic challenge he has confronted." (Editorial, "Romney For President," Lowell [MA] Sun, 10/21/12)
Galveston Daily News: "It Is Clear Romney Is Better Positioned To Get The Economy Moving In The Right Direction Again." "The most critical issue facing the country is the economy, and when you look at the backgrounds of Romney and the president, it is clear Romney is better positioned to get the economy moving in the right direction again. In the private sector, which the president has virtually no experience in, Romney made a career out of turning around failing businesses and enterprises. He did the same in public office as governor of Massachusetts. Romney was able to eliminate a $3 billion deficit he inherited without increasing taxes, while at the same time dropping the state's unemployment rate." (Editorial, "Romney For President," Galveston Daily News, 10/21/12)
Tampa Tribune: "Romney Would Come To Office Ready To Put The Country On The Course To More Freedom And Prosperity." "President Obama may have good intentions, but he is simply taking the nation in the wrong direction. Seasoned executive Romney would come to office ready to put the country on the course to more freedom and prosperity." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney For President," Tampa Tribune, 10/21/12)
The Columbus Dispatch: "Voters Should Place Their Hopes For Change In Experience, By Electing Romney." "In 2008, Americans made a leap of faith when they elevated the inexperienced Obama to the White House. That faith was not rewarded. This time, voters should place their hopes for change in experience, by electing Romney." (Editorial, "For President," The Columbus Dispatch, 10/21/12)
Fort Worth Star-Telegram: "[Mitt Romney] Is Highly Qualified, Both By Business Experience And Public Service." "Romney is an agent of change whose primary campaign thrust has been the economy and his plans and qualifications to improve it. On this front, he is highly qualified, both by business experience and public service." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney: New Leadership For More Economic Growth," Fort Worth Star-Telegram, 10/21/12)
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review: "Mitt Romney Offers A Seasoned, Strategic And Mature Public Policy Mind So Sorely Needed In The White House And So Necessary To Enable Our Great Nation And Its People To Excel." (Editorial, "Mitt Romney For President," Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, 10/21/12)
The Arizona Republic: "The Nation's Economy Now Is In Desperate Need Of The Kind Of Jobs-Creating Animal Spirits That President Romney Would Encourage." "We believe the nation's best opportunity to escape the compounding woes of spiraling debt and economic stagnation lies with a president who believes in the free market's capacity to heal its own wounds. That leader is Romney. The nation's economy now is in desperate need of the kind of jobs-creating animal spirits that President Romney would encourage." (Editorial, "Romney Can Lead Economy Forward," The Arizona Republic, 10/21/12)
  