
    (Santa Fe, NM) -- The Environmental Improvement Board recently approved greenhouse gas emissions reporting rules that will require industry in New Mexico -- including power plants, oil and gas refineries, and cement plants -- to report greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global climate change.
The regulations, which were crafted by the New Mexico Environment Department, are a key component in Governor Richardson's goal of addressing climate change. The rules will go into effect January 1, 2008.
"This is one of the most comprehensive mandatory greenhouse gas reporting programs in the nation," Governor Richardson said. "I have committed our state to aggressive actions to curb the emissions that lead to global climate change, and a strong greenhouse gas reporting program is essential to that effort."
"These regulations create an initial framework that will form the basis for future development of market-based emissions reductions initiatives, such as a cap and trade system," New Mexico Environment Department Secretary Ron Curry said. "Greenhouse gas emissions reporting is an essential tool in tracking whether emissions are reduced."
Power plants are the largest source category of greenhouse gas emissions in New Mexico, followed by the oil and gas industry and transportation.
The rule requires industries that report emissions of other air pollutants, such as SO2, NOx, and particulates, to include greenhouse gas emissions in their emissions reports. The largest industrial facilities must begin reporting greenhouse gases annually for the year 2008.  Industrial facilities that are smaller in size are required to report greenhouse gas emissions as early as the year 2009. The rules allow a phasing in of the greenhouse gases being reported, starting with carbon dioxide, followed by methane, and finally nitrous oxide, hydrofluorocarbons, perfluorocarbons and sulfur hexafluoride.
"I ordered the Environment Department to develop these regulations, and with the Environmental Improvement Board's action, soon industry will be required to report their emissions," said Governor Richardson. "You must be able to measure and track emissions in order to reduce them."
The new regulations encourage companies to register emissions with The Climate Registry, a multi-state greenhouse gas tracking system. The Climate Registry includes 39 U.S. states, three tribes, the District of Columbia, the Canadian provinces of British Columbia and Manitoba, and the Mexican state of Sonora. New Mexico became a founding member of the The Climate Registry in March 2007. The Registry's goals include developing a voluntary greenhouse gas emissions registry for companies within its member states, and providing a uniform, verified set of greenhouse gas emissions data.
In spring 2005, Governor Richardson issued an executive order (http://www.governor.state.nm.us/orders/2005/EO_2005_033.pdf) establishing greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals for New Mexico and called for the creation of the Climate Change Advisory Group to meet those goals.  Governor Richardson's Climate Change Advisory group developed 69 recommendations to combat climate change, and the recent rulemaking implements two unanimously approved recommendations of the group: mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and an opportunity for companies in New Mexico to join a voluntary registry such as The Climate Registry.
Governor Richardson issued another executive order in 2006 (http://www.governor.state.nm.us/press/2006/dec/122806_01.pdf) that listed emissions reduction strategies to address climate change in New Mexico. That order required the Environment Department to develop the mandatory greenhouse gas reporting regulation, which the EIB passed.
For more information contact Marissa Stone, NMED Communications Director, at (505) 827-0314 or (505) 231-0475.
  