
    On October 30, 2004, the President signed into law:
H.J. Res. 57, which expresses the sense of Congress that the space science center in Downey, California, should be designated as the Columbia Memorial Space Science Learning Center as a living memorial to the Columbia astronauts.
H.R. 712, which makes Richi James Lesley eligible for an immigrant visa or for adjustment of status to "lawful permanent resident."
H.R. 867, which makes Durreshahwar Durreshahwar, Nida Hasan, Asna Hasan, Anum Hasan, and Iqra Hasan, eligible for immigrant visas or for adjustment of status to "lawful permanent resident."
H.R. 2010, which requires a plurality (instead of a majority) to elect the American Samoan Delegate to the United States House of Representatives and authorizes the American Samoan legislature to establish primary elections for the office of Delegate.
H.R. 2023, the "Asthmatic Schoolchildren's Treatment and Health Management Act of 2004," which requires the Department of Health and Human Services, when making asthma prevention grants, to give preference to States that require schools to allow asthmatic students to self-medicate.
H.R. 2400, which requires a unified local judicial system in Guam consisting of an appellate court, a trial court, and other lower local courts that may be established by the laws of Guam.
H.R. 2984, which repeals a requirement that processors of pears be members of an agency that administers a marketing order for pears for canning or freezing.
H.R. 3056, which replaces a Coastal Barrier Resources System map for Cedar Keys, Florida, to reflect boundary changes.
H.R. 3217, which authorizes the Secretary of Agriculture to convey four parcels of land to the Mt. Trial Primitive Baptist Church in Florida.
H.R. 3391, the "Provo River Project Transfer Act," which transfers the title to the Provo Reservoir Canal and the Pleasant Grove Property in Utah from the Federal Government to the Provo River Water Users Association; and transfers the title for the Salt Lake Aqueduct to the Metropolitan Water District of Salt Lake and Sandy.
more
(OVER)
2
H.R. 3478, the "National Archives and Records Administration Efficiency Act of 2004," which extends the authorization of appropriations for the National Historical Publications and Records Commission through FY 2009 and makes miscellaneous changes to administrative authorities of the National Archives and Records Administration.
H.R. 3479, the "Brown Tree Snake Control and Eradication Act of 2004," which authorizes the Departments of Agriculture and the Interior to implement measures to control and eradicate the Brown tree snake on Guam and prevent its introduction to other parts of the United States; and authorizes appropriations for these agencies during FYs 2006-2010 for such purposes.
H.R. 3706, the "John Muir National Historic Site Boundary Adjustment Act," which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire a small parcel of land and include it in the adjusted boundaries of the John Muir National Historic Site in California.
H.R. 3797, the "2004 District of Columbia Omnibus Authorization Act," which amends various laws applicable to the operations of the District of Columbia government.
H.R. 3819, the "Lewis and Clark National Historical Park Designation Act," which designates the Lewis and Clark National Park and authorizes the Department of the Interior to acquire additional sites in Oregon and Washington to include in the Park.
H.R. 4046, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 555 West 180th Street in New York, New York, as the Sergeant Riayan A. Tejeda Post Office.
H.R. 4066, the "Chickasaw National Recreation Area Land Exchange Act of 2004," which directs the Secretary of the Interior to convey specified Federal land within the Chickasaw National Recreation Area to the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma upon the Chickasaw Nation conveying specified land to the Secretary.
H.R. 4306, which allows employers to electronically prepare and retain Employment Eligibility Verification Forms that are required to help ensure that employers do not hire aliens who are not authorized to work.
H.R. 4381, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 2811 Springdale Avenue in Springdale, Arkansas, as the Harvey and Bernice Jones Post Office Building.
H.R. 4471, the "Homeownership Opportunities for Native Americans Act of 2004," which requires the Department of Housing and Urban Development to provide a 95 percent loan guarantee level for certain loans related to financing affordable housing and community development activities for Native Americans.
more
3
H.R. 4481, the "Wilson's Creek National Battlefield Boundary Adjustment Act of 2004," which modifies the boundaries of Wilson's Creek National Battlefield in Missouri and authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire certain land for inclusion in the Battlefield.
H.R. 4556, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1115 South Clinton Avenue in Dunn, North Carolina, as the General William Carey Lee Post Office Building.
H.R. 4579, the "Truman Farm Home Expansion Act," which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to acquire a parcel of land and include it in the Harry S Truman National Historic Site in Missouri.
H.R. 4618, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 10 West Prospect Street in Nanuet, New York, as the Anthony I. Lombardi Memorial Post Office Building.
H.R. 4632, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 19504 Linden Boulevard in St. Albans, New York, as the Archie Spigner Post Office Building.
H.R. 4731, which reauthorizes the National Estuary Program through 2010.
H.R. 4827, which redesignates the Colorado Canyons National Conservation Area as the McInnis Canyons National Conservation Area.
H.R. 4917, the "Federal Regulatory Improvement Act of 2004," which authorizes appropriations through FY 2007 for the Administrative Conference of the United States.
H.R. 5027, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 411 Midway Avenue in Mascotte, Florida, as the Specialist Eric Ramirez Post Office.
H.R. 5039, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at United States Route 1 in Ridgeway, North Carolina, as the Eva Holtzman Post Office.
H.R. 5051, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 1001 Williams Street in Ignacio, Colorado, as the Leonard C. Burch Post Office Building.
H.R. 5107, the "Justice for All Act of 2004," which establishes enforceable rights for victims of crimes; enhances DNA collection and analysis efforts; provides for post-conviction DNA testing; and authorizes grants to improve the quality of representation in State capital cases.
more
(OVER)
4
H.R. 5131, the "Special Olympics Sport and Empowerment Act of 2004," which authorizes appropriations through FY 2009 for grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements with Special Olympics for certain education, international, and health activities.
H.R. 5133, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 11110 Sunset Hills Road in Reston, Virginia, as the Martha Pennino Post Office Building.
H.R. 5147, which designates the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 23055 Sherman Way in West Hills, California, as the Evan Asa Ashcraft Post Office Building.
H.R. 5186, the "Taxpayer-Teacher Protection Act of 2004," which eliminates certain special allowance payments to Federal Family Education Loan program lenders; and authorizes an increase from $5,000 to $17,500, in the maximum amount of student loan debt the Government may forgive for certain math, science, and special education teachers who agree to teach for five years in high-poverty schools.
H.R. 5294, the "John F. Kennedy Center Reauthorization Act of 2004," which authorizes appropriations for the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and provides for establishment of a Project Team to further construction of the Kennedy Center Plaza Project.
S. 129, the "Federal Workforce Flexibility Act of 2004," which authorizes Federal agencies to provide recruitment, relocation, and retention bonuses; and makes changes to agency training, leave, and pay authorities.
S. 144, the "Noxious Weed Control and Eradication Act of 2004," which requires the Secretary of Agriculture to establish a program to assist weed management entities to control or eradicate noxious weeds on public and private land.
S. 643, the "Hibben Center Act," which authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to make a grant to the University of New Mexico and to enter a long-term lease for use of a portion of the Hibben Center for Archaeological Research.
S. 1194, the "Mentally Ill Offender Treatment and Crime Reduction Act of 2004," which establishes a Mental Health and Criminal Justice Collaboration Program in the Department of Justice to provide grants to ensure access to treatment for certain mentally ill offenders.
  