
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated William Conley and Brian Jackson to serve on the district court bench. Conley is a nominee for the Western District of Wisconsin and Jackson is a nominee for the Middle District of Louisiana
"William Conley and Brian Jackson will bring to the bench not only the experienced gained from their distinguished legal careers, but the judgment, intellect, and integrity Americans expect and deserve from their federal judges," President Obama said. "I am honored to nominate them and grateful for their willingness to serve."
William Conley, Nominee for the Western District of Wisconsin
William Conley is a partner in the law firm Foley & Lardner LLP, where he specializes in commercial litigation. He is widely recognized as a top appellate and antitrust lawyer, and he has represented clients before the U.S. Supreme Court, the Wisconsin Supreme Court, the Seventh Circuit, and state and federal trial courts. He received his B.A. and his J.D. from the University of Wisconsin at Madison in 1978 and 1982. After graduating from law school, he clerked for Judge Thomas Fairchild on the Seventh Circuit. Conley is a nominee for the Western District of Wisconsin and received a unanimous rating of "well qualified" from the American Bar Association.
Brian Jackson, Nominee for the Middle District of Louisiana
Jackson is a partner in the New Orleans law firm Liskow & Lewis, where he specializes in commercial litigation, government investigations and white collar defense work. From 1994 to 2002, he served as the First Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Louisiana. In 1998, he was detailed to the Justice Department, where he served as Associate Deputy Attorney General. Previously, he served as Assistant General Counsel and General Attorney for the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Service, as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana, and as Assistant Director for the Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys. He received his B.S. from Xavier University of Louisiana in 1982, his J.D. from Southern University in 1985, and his LL.M. in International and Comparative Law from Georgetown University in 2000. Jackson is a nominee for the Middle District of Louisiana and received a unanimous rating of "well qualified" from the American Bar Association.
  