
    "In 2020, the choice is clear. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris represent the best interests of Asian Americans and the best interests of the country."
Last week, for the first time in its history, AsAmNews endorsed Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for President and Vice President of the United States, writing that the Biden-Harris ticket represents the best interest of Asian Americans. The editors note the contrast between the values of the Biden-Harris agenda, and the hateful rhetoric from President Trump, who has fanned the flames of racism faced by the Asian American and Pacific Islander community.
The endorsement from the pan-Asian media outlet also highlights the significance of Kamala Harris as the first Asian American woman and the first Black person ever to be a candidate for Vice President of the United States on a major party ticket.
The endorsement ends with a call to action for Asian Americans, urging them to make their voice heard, fight for the change they believe in and vote for Biden-Harris.
"On issue after issue, Biden has a plan of action which the majority of Asian Americans agree with. The choice is as stark as it ever has been. Asian Americans just need to make sure we get out to the polls. No longer can you say what happens in Washington doesn't impact you, that it doesn't matter."
See below for the endorsement:
AsAmNews: A clear choice: AsAmNews endorses Biden Harris[10/15/20]
In our eight-year history, AsAmNews has never endorsed a presidential candidate until now.
In 2020, the choice is clear.
Joe Biden and Kamala Harris represent the best interests of Asian Americans and the best interests of the country.
Donald Trump continues to foment hatred of Asian Americans with terms like "kung flu" and "China virus."
Biden has unequivocally spoken out against such language and hatred.
Republicans defend the President saying his target is China, not Asians in this country. Yet, in a racist video discovered this past week, a Marine made threatening remarks against Chinese Americans by evoking the words of Trump.
"As the honorable Trump said on Twitter today, 'it was China's fault,"' said Pfc. Jarrett Morford, 20, according to the Marines. "'China is going to pay' for what they have done to this country and the world. I don't give a f*ck. If a ch*nk headed mother f*cker comes up to me when I'm in the fleet, say 5 5 6 b*tch," Morford went on to say in an apparent reference to 5.56 bullets.
Trump leads a Republican party that refused to condemn the rising racism faced by Asian Americans.
Biden leads a Democratic party which condemns it.
164 Republicans in the house all voted against the resolution authored by Rep Grace Meng (D-NY) and refused to speak out against the rise in anti-Asian hate. The resolution passed with overwhelming Democratic support. For her efforts, Meng received a series of racist messages filled with vile, hatred and slurs.
Trump refused to condemn White supremacists during the first presidential debate, telling the Proud Boys, a right wing neo-fascist group associated with White supremacists, to "stand back and stand by."
Biden would later tell the Proud Boys to "cease and desist."
While Trump spends his time bashing China on the Coronavirus, more than 215,000 Americans have died under his watch. He continues to downplay the virus, bragging that he survived it and telling people not to let it "dominate your life." Meanwhile, he hosts super spreader events at the White House, foolishly tempts fate by defying recommendations to wear a mask, and holds political rallies with no social distancing.
We want to be clear. We are not merely endorsing Biden for what he is not. We are endorsing him for what he is and what he represents.
Biden selected the first Asian American woman and the first Black person ever to be a candidate for Vice President of the United States, Kamala Harris. The woman is largely defined by the mainstream media as Black, but Harris has consistently referred in her speeches to the influences on her life of her mother, Shyamala Gopalan. She immigrated from India to America at the age of 19 and went on to become active in the civil rights movement and inspired her daughter to become a politician.
Polls show on the issues Asian Americans most care about, the positions of Biden are more aligned with Asian Americans than Trump.
The 2020 Asian American Voter Survey of 1569 voters conducted by AAPI Data found health care is very or extremely important issue for 90% of the Asian American voters surveyed.
Biden supports the Affordable Care Act. Trump is in court trying to overturn it. Despite four years of promises, he has yet to come up with his own health plan.
Nearly 6 out of 10 Asian Americans support a pathway to citizenship for undocumented immigrants. Biden supports DACA, Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals. Trump opposes it.
More than 6 out of 10 Asian Americans support stricter gun control laws. Biden supports tougher gun laws. Trump opposes it.
53% of Asian Americans believe there should be stronger federal regulations to stop climate change. Trump is a climate denier. Biden supports the 2015 Paris climate Agreement which most of the world 's countries have endorsed and Trump pulled out of.
70% of Asian Americans support affirmative action. Trump opposes affirmative action. Biden supports it.
63% of Asian Americans agree somewhat or strongly that the government should do more to give Blacks equal rights with Whites. Trump opposes Black Lives Matter and says there is no systematic racism. Biden believes there is and supports Black Lives Matter.
On issue after issue, Biden has a plan of action which the majority of Asian Americans agree with. The choice is as stark as it ever has been.
Asian Americans just need to make sure we get out to the polls. No longer can you say what happens in Washington doesn't impact you, that it doesn't matter.
Does it matter that you're treated with respect and have a president that doesn't foment hate against your community?
Does it matter that you stay healthy, that you have a president that sets the right example and encourages people to do the right thing to protect themselves and you?
Does it matter you have a president that knows the best way to reopen this country and beat this virus is to follow proper safeguards?
Does it matter that we have a president smart enough to listen to science?
Does it matter we have a president that doesn't have an overblown ego that impairs his common sense and judgment?
If you answered yes to even one of those questions, please vote. If you know people likely not to vote, consider talking to them.
We cannot afford to have four more years of a president with the maturity of a child with his finger on the button.
AsAmNews enthusiastically endorses Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for next president and Vice President of the United States.
Make your voice heard. Fight for the change you believe in. VOTE Biden/Harris.
  