
    [1.] JOLIET (9:11 a.m.)
Thank you very, very much, George. Senator Chuck Percy, your next Governor, Jim Thompson, other distinguished Members of the House, and some wonderful guests who are going to be traveling with us through the heartland of Illinois:
Let me say Betty and I are deeply grateful for the warm welcome we had last night and the wonderful welcome here today. Our anniversary was a success because of all of you. Thank you.
As George said, Abraham Lincoln was here in Joliet a few years ago. I think it's significant that Abraham Lincoln, when he was in Joliet, made his famous speech that a house divided against itself cannot succeed. Jimmy Carter wants to divide America. President Ford wants to heal America, and that's where we are going.
Betty and I are here and starting this wonderful trip through Illinois because we want your help and we want your vote. We've restored trust to the White House. We've turned the economy around, and we have peace. And not a single young American is fighting or dying on foreign soil today, and that's progress. And we want your help.
As I listen and I read about Jimmy Carter, I can't help but come to the conclusion-and I think you will, too--that Jimmy Carter will say anything, anywhere to be President of the United States. When he's in California, he sounds like Cesar Chavez. When he's in Chicago, he sounds like Mayor Daley. When he's in New York, he sounds like Ralph Nader. When he's in Washington, D.C., he sounds like my good friend George Meany. He wanders, he wavers, he waffles, and he wiggles. He isn't the man you want for President of the United States.
Let's talk very quickly about three subjects: Taxes--President Ford believes that the best tax reform is tax reduction, and Jerry Ford recommended we're going to get eventually an increase in the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That's a real, meaningful, important tax reduction, and that's what we stand for.
What does Jimmy Carter want to do with your taxes? Jimmy Carter says he will increase taxes for all people with a median income and on up, which means that anybody who's earning $14,000 a year or more is going to have his taxes increased under Jimmy Carter. Do you want that?
Jimmy Carter says he's going to increase Federal spending. He has embraced the Democratic budget and the Democratic platform, which will call for tax increases or spending increases of $100 billion a year.
Then he says he's going to reorganize the Federal Government. What did he do in Georgia? He was Governor for 4 years. He increased the number of State employees by over 25 percent. He increased spending by over 50 percent. He increased the bonded indebtedness of Georgia by over $200 million. Could you trust him to reorganize our Federal Government?
But let's talk about defense. Jimmy Carter on two occasions said he would cut the defense budget by $15 billion. And then he had the gall to tell the American people, 90 million of them, last week that he never said it. Can you trust him? Jimmy Carter says he's going to cut defense spending, and then he says America can't be weak any more. He can't have it both ways.
There was a great, great President a few years ago named Teddy Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt once said, "Speak softly and carry a big stick." Jimmy Carter wants to speak loudly and carry a flyswatter.
Jimmy Carter has said America is not respected any more. I said that was slandering the United States and 215 million Americans. What is the truth?
Let me very quickly just quote from some of the distinguished leaders around the world and what they say about the United States. The Prime Minister of Ireland said, "It isn't"--he said, "The ties that were forged between us are today stronger and firmer than ever."
President Giscard of France said, and I quote, "I do not think there has ever been a time when contacts between our two Governments have been more frequent, consultation more sustained, and cooperation more goodwilled."
And then the Chancellor of the Government of West Germany said, "At no time during the past 30 years have relations between our countries been closer and cooperation more trustful and direct than today."
Jimmy Carter doesn't know what he's talking about. I don't think you should let him tear down the respect and the admiration that people around the world have for this great country. We are respected, and when he says that we are not respected he is slandering the United States of America.
Well, Betty and I are delighted to be here. We thank you for the warm reception. We need your help. We want your votes. We are going to carry Illinois and win November 2.
Thank you very much. Have a good day. We love you. We will be back. And in the meantime, make darn sure you reelect George O'Brien, Jim Thompson, Sam Young, and all of the good Republicans in the State of Illinois.Thank you.
[2-]PONTIAC (10:40 a.m.)
Thank you all very, very much.
It's great to be in Pontiac, Bill Harris' hometown. Let me introduce some of the very special guests we have on "The Honest Abe" special: Senator Chuck Percy; Jim Thompson, the next Governor of the State of Illinois; of course you know Bill Harris--where is Bill? There he is; and then an old favorite of yours of many, many years, Les Arends; the next Congressman from this district, Tom Cochran; and then a favorite of mine--[laughter]--Betty Ford; Ed, how are you? Ed Madigan, a fine, fine Congressman. Reelect him, too.
Betty and I are delighted to be in Pontiac, Livingston County. We had a good start in Joliet this morning. I couldn't help but notice that Abe Lincoln made a very famous statement in the State of Illinois just a few years ago when he said, "A house divided against itself cannot stand." Jimmy Carter wants to divide America. President Ford wants to heal America, and that's where we're going.
Betty and I are here in the great State of Illinois because we want your help, we need your vote. With your help we are going to carry Illinois on November 2. And we hope and trust that we can do it emphatically and successfully and win that election for the good of America on November 2.
I can't help but make the observation that Jimmy Carter will say anything, anywhere to be President of the United States. When he's in California, he sounds like Cesar Chavez. When he's in Chicago, he sounds like Mayor Daley. When he's in New York, he sounds like Bella Abzug. When he's in Washington, D.C., he sounds like George Meany. And when he comes to Illinois, he sounds like just a little old peanut farmer. [Laughter] He wavers, he wanders, he wiggles, and he waffles, and he shouldn't be President of the United States.
Now, let me just give you what I think is the reason Betty and I can come here and honestly ask you for your support. Since I have been President, we have restored trust and confidence in the White House. Since I have been President, we have turned the economy around, and the United States today is on a surge toward the kind of prosperity that we expect and will have in the 4 years under President Ford. And thirdly, the United States is at peace. And I am proud to say that not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign soil under this administration.
One other very important point--taxes, spending, national security. Jerry Ford believes the best tax reform is tax reduction, and that's why I recommended to the Congress that they increase your personal exemption from $750 per person to $1,000. The Congress didn't do it, but we're going to pressure them to do it in 1977, and we will keep on pressuring them until they do do it. Tax reduction is the best tax reform.
Now, what does Jimmy Carter want to do about your taxes? He had an interview a few weeks ago, and he said that he would increase taxes on all taxpayers from medium income on up, and that means that 50 percent of the taxpayers in the United States will have a tax increase under Jimmy Carter.
So, the issue is clear. President Ford wants to reduce the middle-income taxpayers' obligations to the Federal Government. Jimmy Carter says he will increase them. So when you go to that ballot box, think about how you can get a fair shake in the Federal tax payments that you have to make.
One other point: I think we've got to put the lid on Federal spending. Jimmy Carter has embraced 60-some spending programs that will add $100 billion to $200 billion annually to the Federal expenditure.
Jimmy Carter also says he wants to reorganize the Federal Government. Let me point this out: When he was Governor of the State of Georgia, 4 years, he increased the number of State employees by 25 percent or more; he increased the spending by the State of Georgia by 50 percent or more; he increased the bonded indebtedness of the State of Georgia by over $200 million. Can you trust him with that record to reorganize the Federal Government? I don't think you can.
Let me say this: Jimmy Carter, on two occasions, has made public statements that he would cut defense spending by $15 billion. Of course he denied it, but the facts are he did say it. He wants now to cut defense spending $7 to $9 billion, or $5 to $6 billion. At the same time, he says the United States is not strong enough. Now, he can't have it both ways.
And let me remind you of a statement made by a great President of the United States, Teddy Roosevelt, who once said, "Speak softly and carry a big stick." With the kind of cutbacks in defense spending that Jimmy Carter wants to make, Jimmy Carter, in effect, is saying speak loudly and carry a flyswatter. [Laughter]
Jimmy Carter has said that the United States, our country, is not respected anymore around the world. That's an inaccurate statement. Every single leader in the free world has said that relations between the United States and their country is good, never been better. And when Jimmy Carter says that your country and my country are not respected, Jimmy Carter is slandering 215 million Americans and the United States of America, and we shouldn't stand for it and we won't.
And so I say to you, Betty and I are delighted to be in the Land of Lincoln, here in Pontiac, Bill Harris' hometown.
I urge you to elect Jim Thompson, your next Governor. I urge you to elect Bill Harris. I urge you to elect Tom Cochran. I urge you to give the support to the kind of record of performance that we have given to you in the last 2 years. And I say Betty and Jerry won't let you down during the next 4 years. Thank you very much.
[3.] BLOOMINGTON (12:10 p.m.)
Good morning.
Betty and I are delighted to be in the great State of Illinois, in particular in Bloomington and McLean County. Thank you very much.
Let me introduce some good friends of yours, good friends of ours. First, your Senator, Chuck Percy; then the next Governor of the great State of Illinois, Jim Thompson; and your good friend, an outstanding Congressman, Ed Madigan, and then George Lindberg, your State comptroller--reelect him. And then Betty and I are delighted to have on this train trip, the old "Honest Abe" special--we have Les Arends, who served you so well. We're delighted to have him--Les.
Let me say a word or two. As I said, Betty and I are so delighted to be in Illinois. We've had a wonderful morning, and now we start a great afternoon.
Betty and I celebrated our 28th anniversary last night up in Joliet, Indiana-Illinois. We are here because we feel that in the last 2 years since I've been your President, we have turned things around in this great country. We have restored trust, honesty to the White House. We've turned the economy around from the worst recession in 40 years to a real program of prosperity for the future in America. We've achieved the peace, and we have the military capability and the diplomatic skill to keep the peace. And I remind you, as I think all Americans recognize, that not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign soil tonight or today.
So, this record of trust, prosperity, and peace, I lay alongside the record of Jimmy Carter and his promises. And Jimmy Carter, it seems to me, as he goes from one part of the country to the other, says anything, anywhere, to get to be President of the United States.
When Jimmy Carter is in California, he tries to sound like Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter is in Chicago, he tries to sound like Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter is in New York, he tries to sound like Bella Abzug. And when he comes to this great farm land of Illinois, he tries to sound like just a little old peanut farmer. [Laughter] He wanders, he wavers, he wiggles, and he waffles. I think the American people deserve better than that.
The American people are concerned about taxes. President Ford believes the best tax reform is a tax reduction. President Ford recommended to the Congress that the Congress increase your personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. The middle-income taxpayer has been shortchanged, and we're going to change it.
Jimmy Carter--he wants to increase Federal taxes for all people from medium income on up. That means that 50 percent of the taxpayers of this country would get a tax increase under Jimmy Carter. Do you want that?
Jimmy Carter wants to spend more Federal money, your taxes that you've worked hard [for], earned. Jimmy Carter embraces the Democratic platform which calls for 60-some new programs that would add $100 billion minimum per year to expenditures by the Federal Government. Do you want that?
Jimmy Carter says he's going to reorganize the Federal Government. Well, let's look at his record in Georgia. After 4 years in Georgia, he increased State employees by over 25 percent, he increased spending in the State of Georgia by over 50 percent, and he added $200 million to their State indebtedness. With that kind of a record, can you imagine what he would do to your Federal Government?
All I can say is, if you like Jimmy Carter, you like to pay taxes. I don't think you want Jimmy Carter as your next President of the United States.
You all recognize that we have the peace. We have a strong Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marines. Jimmy Carter wants to cut the Federal budget for the Defense Department by $15 billion. I don't think that's the way to keep America number one. I think that would weaken America in our efforts to maintain the peace.
Jimmy Carter wants to slash the programs that have kept the peace for us and will keep it in the future. With that kind of a reduction of spending for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines--it reminds me of a statement once made by a great American President, Teddy Roosevelt, who said, "Speak softly and carry a big stick." Jimmy Carter, with that kind of a reduction for our military establishment, is speaking loudly and wants to carry a flyswatter. [Laughter]
Jimmy Carter has said the United States is not respected anymore. Heads of government from all over the world believe that the United States is number one, the United States is the leader in the world. When Jimmy Carter says that the United States, your country and my country, is not respected, he is slandering America, and I don't like it.
So Betty and I are delighted to be with all of you in this great part of the United States. We have worked hard. We think we have a record of performance. We are here to ask for your help and to ask for your vote on November 2. Thank you very, very much.
Let me say, before I have an opportunity to come down and shake hands with all you wonderful folks from Illinois, that your Senator, Chuck Percy, is going to introduce some outstanding citizens from all over the country who have come and joined us at Joliet, who are traveling with us on this trip from Joliet down south. So, while some of us start over here, Chuck is going to introduce them. And I thank them for joining Betty and me, indicating their support for what we've done and what we will do to make a better America. We will be clown there.
14.] LINCOLN (l:29 p.m.)
HI, everybody. It's great to be in Pontiac. I have just been corrected--Bloomington and Lincoln. [Laughter]
Let me say on behalf of Betty that we have had a delightful day, starting with Joliet, and we're--great to be here. It's just wonderful to see such a tremendous crowd. Ed Madigan, your outstanding Congressman, tells me there are more people here than in the community itself. Thank you very much.
Before saying a word or two--Betty and .I reiterate our appreciation--let me introduce some people who have joined us in this trip through the heartland of Illinois. First, I'd like to introduce to you the next Governor of the State of Illinois, Jim Thompson. Let me add how grateful I am that Chuck Percy, your outstanding United States Senator, has been with us all day long. Thank you, Chuck.
It would be the best thing for the State of Illinois to have George Lindberg, your State comptroller, for the next 2 years--4 years. Then it is so wonderful to have the opportunity of saying that my association with Ed Madigan when I was in the House and his support for me while I've been President of the United States, I appreciate. He's good for you, he's good for Illinois, and he's great for the United States.
Let me take just a minute to let you in on some inside information. This morning I got a telegram from Governor Carter, who is attempting to clarify his position on a number of important issues. Specifically, there seems to be some confusion over exactly where Jimmy Carter does stand on a number of issues.
I sent him a telegram indicating that I'm delighted to help him clarify his position on such important issues as income taxes, the deductibility of mortgage interest payments, Federal spending programs, and the defense budget.1 The Governor denies that he is for increasing taxes on middle-income families. I pointed out to him that in an interview with the Associated Press he specifically stated that he wanted to increase income taxes on those families whose income level is above the medium, which is approximately $14,000 per year.
I'm against increasing anybody's taxes; I think we should cut taxes for the American people. The Governor denied that he had advocated eliminating the deduction for homeowners' interest payments. I pointed out to the Governor in my telegram that last February--last February, 1976--in a debate sponsored by the League of Women Voters, he stated that he would advocate eliminating the tax deduction for interest paid on home mortgages. President Ford is against the elimination of that deduction for homeowners on their mortgage payments.
Governor Carter denied that his new spending program would cost $100 billion annually. I pointed out to him in my telegram that the spending programs proposed in the Democratic platform that Governor Carter helped to write would probably cost close to $200 billion annually. Specifically, such proposals as the Humphrey-Hawkins bill, the national health insurance proposal, the Perkins education bill, a negative income tax, would cost approximately $100 billion annually.
I firmly believe that we should keep a lid on Federal spending. The only way to hold down the cost of living is to hold down the cost of Government. I would much rather give tax cuts to the American people than to think up new ways to have the Federal Government spend your hard-earned tax dollars.
Governor Carter, in the telegram to me, stated that he had not called for a $15 billion reduction in the defense budget. I pointed out in my telegram to him that in March of 1975, in Savannah, Georgia, and again in a press conference in Los Angeles, California, he called for a $15 billion reduction in the defense budget.
I firmly believe that it's in our national interest, I strongly believe that in order to keep peace throughout the world, the United States must remain number one. And you can't stay number one with a $15 billion reduction in the defense budget.
We cannot preserve our independence and provide help and assistance for freedom around the world, defend our own national interest, unless we are willing to have the finest military capability that the American people can buy. And under President Ford, we are number one, and under President Ford for the next 4 years, we are going to stay number one.
I also suggested to Governor Carter that he might want to clarify his position on a number of other issues that are of interest to the American people. First, does he really believe, as he said in an interview with Liberty Magazine, that church property should be taxed? Number two, does he agree with his own economic adviser that his economic programs would lead to additional inflation? Does he really believe that our Nation is not strong enough? Does he really believe, as he stated in San Francisco, that America is no longer respected? And I closed, in my telegram to Governor Carter, by saying that I eagerly await his response to these questions, and I look forward to our next debate in Williamsburg, Virginia.
Betty and I have loved the opportunity to be in Illinois. We are here because we want your help. We are here because we want to carry Illinois. We believe with the warm and friendly receptions that we have gotten in Illinois that we're going to carry Illinois, and we're going to win on November 2.
For the last 2 years, since I've had the honor of being President of the United States, we have restored trust--we have restored trust in the White House--we have turned the economy around, and we are on the way to real prosperity in America. We have peace, and I am proud to say that not a single young American is fighting and dying on foreign soil today. That's a record of performance, and I ask you to match that against the promises of Jimmy Carter.
Jimmy Carter--when he goes to California, he tries to sound like Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter goes to Chicago, he tries to sound like Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter goes to New York, he tries to sound like Bella Abzug. When he comes to Illinois, he tries to sound just like a little old peanut farmer. [Laughter] Jimmy Carter wavers and wanders, he wiggles and he waffles.
Let me say the issues that we face today are taxes. The best tax reform I know is tax reduction. As I said in that telegram, Jimmy Carter wants to increase taxes for all above the medium income, which means that 50 percent of the taxpayers of this country will have a tax increase.
The issue of spending is a very pertinent one because that's your hard-earned tax dollar. Jimmy Carter wants to increase spending. President Ford wants to keep a lid on Federal spending.
Jimmy Carter says he wants to reorganize the Federal Government. Well, let's look at how he did it in Georgia. In Georgia, after 4 years, he increased the number of State employees by 25 percent or more. He increased the spending of the State of Georgia by 50 percent or more. He increased the indebtedness of the State of Georgia by over $200 million. With that kind of a record, do you want to trust him to reorganize your Federal Government?
If you like Jimmy Carter, you like more taxes. I don't think the American people want more taxes. They want reduced taxes, and they will get, as they have gotten, under President Ford.
Let me just conclude by saying that Betty and I love being here. We love our country, as all of you do.
When Jimmy Carter says that the United States, our country, is not respected anymore, that's not true, because leaders of the free world, the people of the free world do respect the United States. And when Jimmy Carter says our country is not respected, he is slandering America. I don't like it, and you don't like it, and he is not going to be President for the next 4 years.
I am going to come down and have the privilege and honor of shaking hands with as many of you as I possibly can. But while we are doing that, while I am trying to do that, we have some very honored and very prominent and special guests on board this train who have come from faraway places in our country to show their support for me. I am going to ask your outstanding United States Senator, Chuck Percy, to introduce them to you, and then they will come and join me in extending the warm hand of friendship to all of you--Chuck.
[After greeting members of the community welcoming committee and members of the audience, the President departed Lincoln Station for the Hotel Lincoln, where he participated in an informal luncheon meeting with Illinois newspaper publishers, executive editors, and State media executives.]
[5.] SPRINGFIELD (4:03 p.m.)
Let me introduce a few of my very, very good friends, and a special one. We celebrated our 28th anniversary last night in the great State of Illinois. I want you to know my bride, Betty Ford.
This is my third visit to Springfield in the time that I've been President. But before making a few observations and comments, let me introduce some people that you know, that I know you want to support; first, my good friend, your Senator, Chuck Percy. And let me introduce to you--I shouldn't have to--but I want you to know that it's important for this district, for the State of Illinois, and for the United States that you reelect your Congressman, Paul Finalley. And can I give you some good, sound, friendly advice? I think you ought to elect an outstanding candidate who will be a great Governor--Jim Thompson. And then I think it would be great if you also did the same thing for George Lindberg, as State comptroller.
As I said at the outset, it's great to be in Springfield and in Illinois. We have had a wonderful day coming from Joliet. Betty and I are here because we want your help. We think we have a record of performance, a record that shows that we have restored confidence and trust in the White House. We have turned the economy around from the worst recession in the last 40 years. And right today, we are on the road and a path toward real prosperity not only for 1977 but the kind of prosperity that will be good for America for a long, long time. And I won't be satisfied until every American who wants to work has a job.
But also we have peace, and we have the military capability and the diplomatic skill to keep the peace. And I am very proud that not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign soil today. That's a good record.
So, in the last 2 years plus, we have restored trust in the White House. We are on the road to real prosperity, and we have peace. That's a record of performance. I lay that alongside of the promises made by Jimmy Carter. It seems to me that Jimmy Carter will say anything, anywhere to get to be President of the United States. When Jimmy Carter is in California, he sounds like he is trying to be Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter is in Chicago, he tries to sound like Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter is in New York, he tries to sound like Bella Abzug. But when Jimmy Carter comes down to Illinois, downstate, Jimmy Carter tries to tell you he is just a little old peanut farmer. [Laughter]
Jimmy Carter--he wanders, he wavers, he wiggles, and he waffles. [Laughter] I think you deserve a better candidate for the Presidency than Jimmy Carter, and Jerry Ford is the candidate that I want you to support on November 2.
I believe that the best tax reform is tax reduction, and Jerry Ford tried to get it for you with an increase in the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That would be good, sound tax relief, tax reduction, for the middle-income taxpayer who has been shortchanged by the Democratic Congress. Jimmy Carter--he wants to increase taxes for the individuals who will go from the median income on up. That means that under Jimmy Carter's platform, Jimmy Carter will increase the taxes of 50 percent of the Federal taxpayers in America.
Let me tell you, if you like Jimmy Carter, you like taxes. I think you prefer Jerry Ford, who wants to reduce your middle-income taxes. A big issue, a major difference between Jimmy Carter and myself--I think we've got to keep a lid on Federal spending. I think the Federal Government has to pull in its belt and stop spending your money as recklessly as we have.
Jimmy Carter embraces the Democratic platform, which calls for 60 new programs that will spend a minimum of $100 billion more each year. And if you cost them all out, it will probably cost you $200 billion more a year. I don't think the American people want that kind of spending, which means more inflation and more taxes.
But Jimmy says, well, he's going to reorganize the Federal Government. Jimmy Carter, when he was Governor of the State of Georgia, told the people of Georgia the same thing. What happened? Well, in 4 years, he increased the number of State employees by over 25 percent, he increased the spending by over 50 percent, and he added to the bonded indebtedness of Georgia by $200 million.
Well, with that kind of record in Georgia, I think it would be catastrophic if he tried to do the same thing with the Federal Government. I don't think you want that kind of reorganization. I think you want a Federal Government that is responsive and responsible to the American people. And under the Ford administration we are going to give you that.
Now, Jimmy Carter on two occasions--once in Savannah, Georgia and once in Los Angeles--said that the Defense Department ought to be cut by $15 billion. He denied it, but the facts are that's what he said. On the other hand, Jimmy Carter says America isn't strong enough. Now, you can't cut the defense budget by $15 billion and keep the United States number one. We are number one under President Ford, and we're going to keep you number one for the next 4 years under President Ford.
But as we have traveled from Joliet down here to Springfield, we've gone through the heart of the agricultural area of this country. And it's been a great privilege and honor for us to see so many people who produce the food and the fiber that makes America really run. Five percent of the people produce more than enough for us to eat and wear and, at the same time, produce enough for us to sell overseas.
Every one of us ought to be thankful that we are blessed with the farmers of America, who through their hard work do that job for us. And I thank each and every one of them for making America strong with their efforts.
A few days ago many of you probably heard Jimmy Carter say that America is not respected anymore. That isn't true. The leaders of the world, whether they are the leaders of the free world or the leaders behind the Iron Curtain, respect the United States of America. And when Jimmy Carter says that America isn't respected, I think he is slandering our country, slandering the efforts, the beliefs, the convictions of 215 million Americans.
Jerry Ford has faith and trust and confidence in the American people and in our great country. I am proud of America. And with me as President for the next 4 years, we will keep America number one.Thank you very much.
And while I go down and shake hands with as many of you as I can, I want my friend, Chuck Percy, to introduce some very special guests who have come from many parts of this country to indicate their support for Betty and for myself. They are great citizens. They believe in what we've done. And I want you to meet them and Chuck will introduce them. In the meantime, I will come down and say hello to as many as I possibly can.
Thank you.
[6.] CARLINVILLE (5:30 p.m.)
While we are waiting for the news media to come up and some of the special guests that have been riding with Betty and me on the train all day long, let me say it's great to be in Carlinville. It's wonderful to be in Illinois. We've had a great day, and I thank all of you very, very much.
I like that sign, "Carlinville welcomes President Ford," and I like that sign there, "The Findley Trailriders like President Ford."
It's wonderful to be here in the company with your great Senator, Chuck Percy. It's wonderful to be in the district so ably represented by Congressman Paul Findley. Send him back for your good, for Illinois' good, and for the good of the United States. And we have had Jim Thompson with us. Jim Thompson will be a great Governor on November 2. Make darned sure you elect him as your next Governor of the State of Illinois.
Now let me make a comment or two. Betty and I have had a great day, starting with Joliet, coming here, ending in Alton. We are here in Illinois because Illinois is a very important State in this election November 2. We want your help. With your help, we can carry Illinois. With Illinois we can win the election on November 2, and you will have Jerry Ford as your President for the first 4 years of our third century.
In the last 2 years as your President, we have done three things that are good for America. We have restored the trust that's necessary in the White House. The American people know that we are open, we are candid, we are straightforward. The American people know that they can trust the White House under President Ford.
Number two, in the last 18 months, we have turned the economy around from the worst recession in the last 40 years so that we are now on the rise. And I won't be satisfied until everybody who wants a job has a job. We will get it under our program for prosperity in America.
Number three, I am proud of the fact that we are at peace and that not a single young American is fighting and dying anyplace on this Earth today. And we are going to keep it that way under President Ford.
I am proud of the fact that I have a record of performance, and I ask you, as Voters, to lay that record of performance alongside the promises made by Jimmy Carter. Jimmy Carter will tell anybody anything, anywhere, just to get to be President of the United States. Let me illustrate. When Jimmy Carter is in California, he tries to sound like Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter is in Chicago, he tries to sound like Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter is in New York, he tries to sound like Bella Abzug. And when Jimmy Carter comes down to this great farmland in the area of Carlinville, he tries to make you believe that he is just a little old peanut farmer from Georgia. [Laughter] Jimmy Carter wanders, he wavers, he wiggles, and he waffles. I think the voters of Illinois will take my record of performance over Jimmy Carter's promises any day.
Let's take the issue of taxes. I believe the best tax reform is tax reduction. I submitted to the Congress a recommendation to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. The middle-income taxpayers of this country have been shortchanged, and the Ford program will restore equity to those middle-income taxpayers who have gotten short shrift.
Jimmy Carter, he said--quoted by the Associated Press--that he would increase the taxes for all people in the medium-income tax brackets. Jimmy Carter is saying to the taxpayers of this country that he would raise the taxes of 50 percent of the American people. Who do you want, a President who promises to give the middle-income taxpayers a break or do you want Jimmy Carter, who is going to add to the tax burden of the middle-income taxpayers? I think you will take Jerry Ford. Anybody that likes Jimmy Carter likes taxes. Don't buy it.
Let's talk about spending. In the 2 years that I've been President, I have tried to put the lid on Federal spending because when you have more and more Federal spending, it will mean more and more inflation. Jimmy Carter has embraced the platform that he helped to write, which calls for 60-some new programs. And if those programs become law, it will add anywhere from $100 billion a year to $200 billion more in Federal spending. I think the American people want the Federal Government to spend less, not to spend more.
And Jimmy Carter has said that he is going to reorganize the Federal Government. Let me tell you what Jimmy Carter did when he reorganized the government of Georgia. In the 4 years that Jimmy Carter was President--I mean Governor of Georgia--Jimmy Carter increased the number of State employees by more than 12 [25] percent. In the 4 years that Jimmy Carter was Governor of Georgia, he increased the spending of the State of Georgia by more than 50 percent. And, as Governor of the State of Georgia, he increased the bonded indebtedness of that State by over $200 million.
Now if you take that record and he became President, I don't think you would want him reorganizing the Federal Government. I believe you will vote for President Ford because he is making the Federal Government more responsible and more responsive, and he is going to keep the lid on Federal spending.
Then let me take a minute to talk about agriculture. I know in this area-this is part of that great breadbasket of America. I know that you have produced corn and soybeans and wheat. I know that you are a great contributor to the bounty of America. If you look at the farm policy of this administration against the promised farm policies of Jimmy Carter--I believe in expanded production, record exports, the use of the free market. I believe that under our policies we have expanded agriculture, and we are going to continue to keep the farmer making the decisions and keep the Government out of your pocket and off your farm. And that's what I think you want.
Now let me talk for just a minute about national security. We have a wonderful country. This country is strong internally, and America is strong; we are number one. Jimmy Carter, on two occasions, has said if he became President he would cut the defense budget by $15 billion. Let me tell you what that will do. Sounds good--of course, he doesn't know where he'd do it, but it sounds good. If we were to cut the defense budget, we would strip the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines of the necessary weapons that they need to keep America number one.
America is at peace because America is strong. Jimmy Carter would undercut the strength of our military and make this country weak defensively. I think America wants a strong defense. America wants peace. You want Jerry Ford to be your President so we will stay number one in the next 4 years.
Last week Jimmy Carter said America is not respected anymore. If you look around the world, if you talk to the leaders, whether they are in the free world or whether they are on the other side, they respect America. They know America is good. They know America is strong. And when Jimmy Carter says America is no longer respected, he is slandering America. I am proud of America like you are, and let's keep America strong so we can continue to be proud of it and be respected around the world.
Thank you very, very much.
I am going to come down and try to shake hands with as many of you as I possibly can. But we have some wonderful guests who have come from many parts of the country, leaders in their own field, who have come to show their support for my candidacy. I want your great Senator, Chuck Percy, to introduce them as I go along and shake hands. You will like them. They are great people, and I appreciate their support.Thank you very much.
[7.] ALTON (6:50 p.m.)
Thank you very, very much. Betty and I have had a wonderful day in Illinois, starting in Joliet this morning, ending here in Alton this evening.
We've had a wonderfully warm reception.
Betty and I love Illinois. We are here to ask for your help. We are here to ask for your vote. And with your vote we can carry Illinois, and we will win the election November 2.
We have some wonderful friends who have been with us on this trip. First, I want to introduce to all of you a good friend of yours, an outstanding United States Senator, Chuck Percy. We also have your fine Congressman, Paul Findley. He is good for you, he is good for Illinois, he is good for the country. We've also had on the trip, most of the way, one of the finest candidates for Governor that I've ever met, who is going to be your next Governor, Jim Thompson.
In the 2 years that I've been your President, I believe we've made a record-we've restored confidence and trust in the White House; we have turned the economy around from the worst recession in the last 40 years. I won't be satisfied until everybody who wants to work has a job, and that's what we will do in the next 4 years.
In the last 2 years, we have achieved a peace. We have the military strength and the diplomatic skills to keep the peace. And I am proud to say here tonight that not a single young American is fighting or dying on any foreign battlefield. We will keep the peace through our policies. And I am proud of what we've done, and I commit we will keep it that way in the future.
I've summarized the record of the last 2 years under my Presidency. Lay that alongside, if you will, the promises of Jimmy Carter.
Jimmy Carter will go anyplace, say anything to anybody to get to be President of the United States. When Jimmy Carter is in California, he sounds like Cesar Chavez. When Jimmy Carter goes to Chicago, he tries to sound like Mayor Daley. When Jimmy Carter goes to New York, he tries to sound like Bella Abzug. When Jimmy Carter comes to this great part of Illinois, the breadbasket of America, Jimmy Carter says, "I am just a little old peanut farmer." Jimmy Carter wavers, he wanders, he wiggles, and he waffles. That's not the kind of a person you want as President of the United States. You want a President that's got a record, a record of progress in the last 2 years.
Let me talk about three subjects. One, taxes. I believe that the best tax reform is tax reduction, particularly for the middle-income taxpayers who have been shortchanged in the last 10 years. I submitted to the Congress a proposal to increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. That's the best way to give relief; that's the best way to give equity to the middle-income taxpayers. Congress didn't do it, but I pledge to you that I will keep the pressure on Congress in the next session, in the next session, in the next session, and in the next session until they do it, because it's right.
Now, in contrast, Jimmy Carter, in an interview with the Associated Press, said that he would increase taxes for all medium-income earners. And what does that mean? That means that all income earners of over $14,000 under Jimmy Carter will have a tax increase. That's 50 percent of the taxpayers in this country.
Let me say this: If you like Jimmy Carter, you sure like taxes. If you like Jerry Ford, you will get a tax reduction.
President Ford, in the last 2 years, has tried to keep the lid on Federal spending. We've been partially successful, but in the next 4 years we will keep the pressure on because if you have more and more spending, you will have more and more inflation and more and more taxes.
Now, Jimmy Carter--he embraces the platform that came from that Convention in New York City. In fact, he wrote it. And that platform calls for 60-some new programs, programs that if they become law--and he has promised that they will--will add $100 billion a year at a minimum and probably close to $200 billion.
I don't think the American people want more spending. I think the American people want the kind of a record that I have achieved of keeping the lid on Federal spending.
Jimmy Carter talks about reorganizing the Federal Government. Let's look at his record in Georgia. In the 4 years that Jimmy Carter was Governor of Georgia, he increased the number of State employees by over 25 percent, he increased the expenditures in the State of Georgia by over 50 percent, and he increased the bonded indebtedness of the State of Georgia by over $200 million.
Now can you imagine, with that record, what he would do to your Federal Government if he ever had the opportunity to reorganize it? Is that what you want for the next 4 years?
Jimmy Carter on two occasions has said he wanted to cut the defense budget by $15 billion. At the same time, he talks about making America stronger. Now, he can't have it both ways. But anyhow, he has said that he wants to reduce the funds for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines by $15 billion. I don't believe that's the way to keep America number one. America is number one today, and we want America to stay number one.
All of you remember that great President of the United States, Teddy Roosevelt. Teddy Roosevelt once said, "Speak softly and carry a big stick." Jimmy Carter, with his $15 billion reduction in expenditures for the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines--what Jimmy Carter says is speak loudly and carry a flyspotter--flyspot--flyswatter. [Laughter] It has been a long day. [Laughter]
One final point: Last week Jimmy Carter said that America is not respected anymore. That is not right. The United States of America is respected, respected by our allies and respected by our adversaries. And when Jimmy Carter says that our country--yours and mine, the Nation of 215 million wonderful people--when he says we are not respected, he is slandering America. I don't like it, you don't like it because America is a good country, with good people. And we love it, and we are proud of it, and we are going to stay proud of it 4 years under Jerry Ford.
So, Betty and I are delighted here to be in Alton. Mayor Lenz and the wonderful people of this community--it's a pleasure and honor to be your President. And we ask you between now and November 2 to not only go to the polls yourself but to get your neighbor, your friend, your business associate, and get them to the polls because this is a crucial, critical election.
We can win in Illinois with your help. We can win this election. And it will be good for America, and we promise not to let you down.
Thank you very much.
Let me ask you one more thing. Wait just a minute. We have had some wonderful friends, outstanding people in their various professions, who have been with us from Joliet to Alton. I am going to ask that Chuck Percy take just a minute or two to introduce them. I want to thank all of them personally for their contributions to this good day. And you will love them. They are wonderful people. Betty and I are most grateful for their support.
I want to come out and shake hands with as many of you as I can.
  