
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Lawrence A. Greenfield to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Statistics of the Department of Justice. Greenfield is presently the Acting Director and has served in the Bureau of Justice Statistics since 1982, starting as a staff statistician and continuing in various positions of increasing responsibility including Chief of the Correctional Statistics Programs, Deputy Director for National Statistical Programs and Principal Deputy Director. Before joining the Bureau of Justice Statistics, Greenfield worked in the Justice Department's National Institute of Justice. He received an undergraduate degree from the University of Maryland and a Master's degree from American University.
The President intends to nominate Richard M. Russell to be Associate Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy. Russell has served as Chief of Staff in the Office of Science and Technology Policy since January. From 1995 to 2001, he served with the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Science, first as professional staff for the Subcommittee on Energy and Environment, then Staff Director for the Subcommittee on technology and finally as Deputy Chief of Staff for the Science Committee. Russell was a professional staff member for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries? Subcommittee on Oceanography, Gulf of Mexico and Outer Continental Shelf from 1993 to 1994. Russell is a graduate of Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Dan Gregory Blair to be Deputy Director of the Office of Personnel Management. Blair has served as Senior Counsel for the Senate Committee on Governmental Affairs since 1998, and was previously Staff Director of the House of Representatives Committee on Government Reform and Oversight's Subcommittee on the Postal Service from 1995 to 1998. From 1985 to 1995, he was Minority General Counsel to the House of Representatives Committee on the Post Office and Civil Service. Blair received both his undergraduate and law degrees from the University of Missouri-Columbia.
The President intends to nominate Linda Morrison Combs to be Chief Financial Officer of the Environmental Protection Agency. Combs founded Combs Music International in 1991, and currently serves as its President. From 1989 to 1991, she was Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Management, and from 1987 to 1989, she was Associate Administrator for Management of the Veterans Administration. Combs served at the Department of Education from 1982 to 1986, first as Executive Secretary and then as Deputy Under Secretary for Management. She is a former elected member of the Winston-Salem/Forsyth County Board of Education. Combs received both an undergraduate and Master's degree from Appalachian State University as well as a Doctorate degree in Education Management from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University.
  