
    Mitt Romney announced today the support of former New Hampshire Governor and White House Chief of Staff John H. Sununu. Governor Sununu will serve as chairman of the Romney for President campaign's national steering committee and advise Romney on policy and national issues.
"I am deeply appreciative of Governor Sununu's friendship and support," said Mitt Romney. "Governor Sununu is one of the most respected public servants in New Hampshire and he has stood for the values embodied by Granite Staters: hard work, individualism, and fiscal responsibility. His advice and counsel will be important as I work to earn support from voters in the Granite State and work to fix our troubled economy."
"I'm supporting Governor Romney because he is a solid conservative who is committed to reducing taxes, cutting spending and preserving America's military strength. Mitt has served as a governor, had a successful career in the private sector, and acquired the executive experience needed to turn around our economy and fix our broken government," said Governor Sununu. "He has demonstrated that he is the strongest candidate to take on President Obama in 2012 and restore fiscal sanity to Washington."
Background On Governor John H. Sununu:
John Sununu served as New Hampshire's 85th governor from 1983 to 1989. During his three terms in office he also served as the Chairman of the National Governors Association and the Republican Governors Association.
In 1987, Sununu joined then-Vice President George Bush's presidential campaign. He helped Bush win New Hampshire's first-in-the-nation primary and secure the Republican presidential nomination.
Following Bush's general election victory, Sununu was named White House Chief of Staff -- a position that he held from 1989 to 1991. After leaving the White House, Sununu co-hosted the political affairs show Crossfire on CNN from 1992 to 1998.
Sununu came out of political retirement in 2009 to serve as Chairman of the New Hampshire Republican Party. Under Sununu's leadership, Republicans won 7 out of 8 state special elections and achieved historic victories in the 2010 midterm elections. Granite State Republicans swept all federal races, won supermajorities in the NH House and Senate, and captured all five seats on the Executive Council. The current 19-5 Republican advantage in the State Senate is the largest since 1962, and the pickup of 124 seats in the State House is the biggest gain ever recorded in a single election cycle.
  