
    "It's going to be a very clear choice that Americans have on November 4th. You're going to have an opportunity to support a ticket that supports policies that will create jobs, or support a ticket that supports policies that kill jobs." --Governor Sarah Palin
Sarah Palin
Sean Hannity Show
October 1, 2008
Sean Hannity: But Senator Obama has proposed an increase in the Social Security tax, the death tax, corporate taxes, tax rates, eliminate the Bush tax cuts, capital gains tax, and windfall profits tax, but yet he is telling everybody in every speech that 95% of Americans are not going to be taxed here. Is that possible?
Governor Sarah Palin: No, when Obama talks about raising taxes on the rich, he doesn't tell Americans that 85% of small businesses will be impacted by his tax increases -- that's going to cost jobs. That's why I look forward to tomorrow night also, getting to speak directly to Americans, without that filter of mainstream media trying to I think maybe censor some of my comments as we lay out the contrasts between these two different tickets. It's going to be a very clear choice that Americans have on November 4th. You're going to have an opportunity to support a ticket that supports policies that will create jobs, or support a ticket that supports policies that kill jobs. Now creating jobs means we have to reduce taxes on our small business and on our families and we have to reign in government spending -- that's got to be an accompanying measure -- and we have to make our country energy independent. All of the things that John McCain has been campaigning on for months and months, and that I have been standing for as the governor of an energy-producing state in Alaska, or again the contrast is you can support a ticket that wants to increase taxes, hurt small businesses especially and still propose spending nearly a trillion dollars more in new programs. Those measures are going to kill job creation.
Hannity: One of the issues that most people acknowledge that you have your area of expertise on is on the issue of oil and energy. Joe Biden once said that proponents of off shore drilling want to quote rape the outer continental shelf.' Why do we need to drill more and what other policies would you support towards energy independence?
Palin: American people are a lot smarter than what Biden is giving them credit for there. We are understanding that we are on an unsustainable path and we are relying on countries that don't like us very much to provide fuel for our economy and for our cars and our trucks; and oil to heat our homes and places of business and our schools. John McCain and I know that we need a comprehensive, all-of-the-above approach and that does mean drilling domestic supplies of energy, keeping options on the table that can include that offshore drilling that's safe and sound, and also alternative sources of energy and also stepping up greater conservation efforts here in America also. And as governor I've pushed for and championed the largest infrastructure project in North America's history, that's Alaska natural gas pipeline, that's underway. We need to maximize recovery of domestic resources; we can minimize waste as we do this. And we are going to help lead to less dependence on foreign supplies. And it is scary that Senator Biden has not grasped that yet. He has had ample opportunity to support domestic solutions here and every time he gets the opportunity he votes no' on all options.
ListenTo Governor Palin
  