
    Mitt Romney today announced additional endorsements of elected officials and leaders in Georgia. "It's an honor to receive the support of these great Georgians," said Mitt Romney. "They share my vision for reduced government spending and regulation in order to get the economy moving again. I'm looking forward to working with them to bring my message to all Georgians." Announcing his support, State Senator Fran Millar, who also endorsed Mitt Romney in 2008, said, "I am proud to support Mitt Romney for president. He is the only candidate with both the conservative record and plan to get our economy on the right track again. After three years, it is clear that we cannot afford to elect a president without experience working in the economy. Mitt Romney will bring the skills of a successful businessman and governor to help fix our economy. With his leadership in Washington, I have no doubt that we will be able to reverse the failures of the last three years and get Americans working again." State Representative B.J. Pak said, "It is clear that President Obama's liberal policies are not helping Georgians or the rest of the country. Mitt Romney has a record of leadership as a conservative businessman and as a governor who was able to cut taxes and spending. He knows that we need those conservative principles in the White House if we are to turn around the economy – that is why Georgians will support his effort to defeat President Obama." Georgia Elected Officials And Leaders Endorsing Mitt Romney:

Fran Millar, State Senator
B.J. Pak, State Representative
Nancy Coverdell
Kelley O'Bryan Gary, Chairman, Jackson County GOP
Robert J. Walker, Former Mayor, Dublin
Jon Jones, Chairman, Tift County GOP
James P. Golden, Former Chairman, Tift County GOP and Former 2nd District Director, Young Republicans
Myron Faircloth, Chairman, South Georgia Young Republicans
Ruth Malhotra, Former Executive Director, Georgia Association of College Republicans
Orit Sklar, Former Executive Director, Fulton County GOP
Jaime F. Aguilera, Former Director of Hispanic Outreach, Cobb County GOP
Ron Johnson, Former Chairman, Jackson GOP

Georgia Elected Officials And Leaders Already Supporting Mitt Romney:

Attorney General Sam Olens
Former House Speaker Mark Burkhalter
State Senator Bill Hamrick, Chairman of Senate Judiciary Committee
State Representative Calvin Hill, Vice Chairman of House Appropriations Committee
State Representative & House Majority Whip Edward Lindsey
State Representative Wendell Willard, Chairman of House Judiciary Committee
State Representative Bruce Williamson
Lynne Riley, State Representative
Val Clark, State Representative
Public Service Commissioner Doug Everett
Max Bacon, Mayor of Smyrna
Gabriel Sterling, Sandy Springs City Councilman
Dan Israel, State Board of Education
Jose Perez, Former State Board of Education
Molly Dye, Chief of Staff to the late Senator Paul Coverdell
Heath Garrett, Former Chief of Staff to Senator Isakson
Fred Cooper, State Chairman for President George H. W. Bush's Presidential Campaign
Oscar Persons, State Chairman for Senator Bob Dole's Presidential Campaign
Eric Tanenblatt, State Chairman for President George W. Bush's Presidential Campaign and Chief of Staff to Governor Sonny Perdue
Lori Pesta, National Federation of Republican Women, Board of Directors
Ric Mayfield, Former Assistant Treasurer – Georgia Republican Party
Chandler Epp, Former Vice Chair – Georgia College Republicans
Marion Hay, Chairman, Moultrie/Colquitt County Industrial Development Authority
Keith Stone, 1st District GOP Chair
David Burge, 5th District GOP Chair
Ryan Boland, Former Habersham County GOP Chair
Jerry Loupee, Former Chatham County GOP Chair
Michael Barrett, Vice Chairman – Towns County GOP
Ryan Cleveland, Decatur County GOP Chair
Tom Morrill, Peach County GOP Chair

  