
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Fifty years ago, at the end of the most destructive war the world has ever known, delegates from fifty-one countries met in San Francisco to establish the United Nations. Inspired by a common determination "to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war," the delegates recognized that their vision of a better world could not simply be defined by the absence of conflict, nor could peace be maintained without broad international cooperation. Thus they resolved to "unite our strength to maintain international peace and security," to "promote social progress and better standards of life," and to reaffirm universal human rights.
This year, the U.N., which now numbers 185 member countries, has continued its tradition of promoting peace and security around the globe. Its agencies are important instruments in the campaign to stop the proliferation of nuclear arms and other weapons of mass destruction. It works to provide security for the conduct of free elections. And United Nations troops strive to keep the peace in places of great importance to the United States—on the Kuwait border, in the Mediterranean and in Europe.
We can also be proud of the U.N. agencies and programs that work to support sustainable development, protect the environment, battle the spread of disease, and promote human rights. In fighting the deadly outbreak of the Ebola virus, immunizing millions of children, and securing relief for hundreds of thousands of refugees, agencies like the World Health Organization, UNICEF, and the United Nations High Commissions for Human Rights and Refugees make important contributions to the international community.
The U.N. enters its second half-century of service facing new opportunities and challenges. If the nations of the world are to fully embrace these opportunities and overcome these challenges, we must work more closely together to fully realize the principles of the original United Nations Charter and must commit to improving the organization's efficiency and effectiveness. During this momentous anniversary celebration, let us reaffirm the ideals, principles, and goals contained in the Charter and rededicate ourselves to working for the good of all humankind.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim Tuesday, October 24, 1995, as United Nations Day. I encourage all Americans to acquaint themselves with the activities and accomplishments of the U.N. and to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies, programs, and activities furthering the goal of international cooperation.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  