
    The President today announced the five members of the President's Advisory Committee on the Points of Light Initiative Foundation. The Committee has been charged with reporting to the President within 45 days of the Committee's first meeting on the legal structure of the Foundation and the legislation needed to establish the Foundation. The five members of the Advisory Committee are as follows:
Gov. Thomas Kean. Thomas Kean is Governor of New Jersey and will serve as Chairman of the President's Advisory Committee. Governor Kean was first elected to the statehouse in 1981. Born in New York City on April 21, 1935, Governor Kean graduated from Princeton University and subsequently earned his M.A. from Columbia University. He taught political science at Rutgers University and worked as a commentator and reporter for the New Jersey Nightly News program.
While in office, Governor Kean has proven to be an innovator in education reform, economic recovery, and environmental issues. After having inherited a substantial budget deficit, the Governor's budgets have consistently shown surpluses fiscal year after fiscal year. Through his Environmental Trust Fund, he has made New Jersey a national leader in the environmental movement. In 1985 Governor Kean established the Office of Volunteerism in New Jersey. This past June, in response to President Bush's call to make community service national policy, Governor Kean started the Garden State Initiative. He has served as chairman of the Education Commission of the States as part of his national leadership role in reforming and improving the school systems.
Edward A. Brennan. Mr. Brennan is chairman and chief executive officer of Sears, Roebuck and Co. and the chairman of the board of governors of the United Way. He joined Sears in 1956 as a salesman in a Madison, WI, store. After 30 years with Sears, he attained his present rank.
Mr. Brennan serves on the boards of directors of AMR Corp., Minnesota Mining & Manufacturing Co., and the Sears-Roebuck Foundation. He is a member of the President's Export Council, the Business Council, the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Advisory Committee, the Business Roundtable, the Conference Board, and the business advisory council of the Chicago Urban League. He is also a member of the boards of trustees of DePaul University, Marquette University, Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center, and the Chicago Museum of Science and Industry. Mr. Brennan is a 1955 graduate of Marquette University with a degree in business administration.
Norman A. Brown. Dr. Brown is currently president and chief programming officer of the W.K. Kellogg Foundation in Battle Creek, MI. The foundation, established in 1930 to "help people help themselves," has distributed more than $1 billion in support of programs in the fields of agriculture, education, and health. Before joining the foundation, Dr. Brown served on the faculties of Michigan State University and the University of Minnesota. He was the State 4-H director in Michigan and the dean and State director of the Minnesota Extension Service. Dr. Brown's international experience consisted of directing a Peace Corps program in the Philippines, work in agricultural education in Algeria, and consulting for 10 years in Latin America and the Caribbean for Partners of the Americas. His experience in the field of voluntarism has included such diverse activities as trustee of the Michigan State University Foundation; director of Independent Sector, a national organization of the nonprofit and philanthropic sector in the United States; chairman of the board of a trust for a new international college of agriculture for the humid tropics in Costa Rica; and member of a local board of education. In addition, Dr. Brown is the president of the Michigan-Dominican Republic-Belize Partners of the Americas. Dr. Brown received his bachelor's, master's, and doctor's degrees from Michigan State University.
Frances Hesselbein. Mrs. Hesselbein has been the national executive director of the Girl Scouts of the USA since 1976. In the 77-year history of Girl Scouting, Mrs. Hesselbein is the first chief executive officer chosen from within the ranks of the organization.
Mrs. Hesselbein serves on the individual investor advisory committee to the board of directors of the New York Stock Exchange and on the board of governors of Josephson Ethics Institute. She is a member of the top 17 national agency executive directors of the United Way of America, a member of the editorial advisory board of "Nonprofit Management and Leadership," Case Western Reserve University, and a member of the director's resource council of the National Women's Economic Alliance Foundation. Mrs. Hesselbein was the first woman to receive the National Professional Leadership Award, given by the United Way of America, as well as the first entrepreneurial woman award for excellence in not-for-profit management. She also has received the Distinguished Community Service Award from Mutual of America Life Insurance Co. Mrs. Hesselbein is a volunteer on two college boards of trustees: Juniata College, Huntingdon, PA, and Allentown College of St. Francis de Sales, Allentown, PA. She is also on the board of visitors of the Peter F. Drucker Graduate School Management Center at Claremont College Graduate School in Claremont, CA.
Vernon E. Jordan, Jr. Mr. Jordan is currently a senior partner in the Washington, DC, office of the law firm of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld. From 1972 to 1981, he was president of the National Urban League. Mr. Jordan has received many awards in recognition of his accomplishments, including, in 1977, the Alexis de Tocqueville Award of the United Way of America, a special tribute to his leadership in the field of voluntarism. He has authored a weekly newspaper column which has appeared in over 300 newspapers; broadcast commentaries on current issues for the Westinghouse broadcast network; and has been a frequent guest on major national television broadcasts, including "Meet the Press," "Issues & Answers," and "Face the Nation." Mr. Jordan is a trustee of the Ford Foundation, governor of the New York Hospital, a member of the board of directors for the United Way of America, the former chairman of the board of trustees for the Atlanta University Center (recently retired), and the chairman of the National Academy Foundation. Mr. Jordan was reared in Atlanta, GA, where he was born on August 15, 1935. He received his B.A. from DePauw University in 1957 and graduated from Howard University Law School in 1960.
  