
    In the latest episode of the reality show that is Donald Trump's campaign, he has blamed my brother for the 9/11 terrorist attacks on our nation.
That Trump echoes the attacks of Michael Moore and the fringe Left against my brother is yet another example of his dangerous views on national-security issues.
This is a man who has previously stated he would prefer Hillary Clinton had led negotiations on the nuclear agreement with Iran. He has expressed a willingness to allow Vladimir Putin to dominate the Middle East by aligning with Iran and propping up the ruthless Syrian dictator, Bashar al-Assad — an action that would only worsen the existing refugee crisis and endanger our national-security interests and those of Israel. And he has been ignorant and dismissive of the world's most dangerous terrorist organizations, saying that we shouldn't have gone into Afghanistan to hunt al-Qaeda and end the safe haven for terror provided by the Taliban, only to retreat from that stance this week.
Let's be clear: Donald Trump simply doesn't know what he's talking about. And his bluster overcompensates for a shocking lack of knowledge on the complex national-security challenges that will confront the next president of the United States.
We are in serious times, and we need a President who will have the resolve to take on the terrorists and restore America's position in the world. Unlike Trump, I have offered strategies to confront Iran and combat the growing terrorist threat to our country.
One of the greatest honors I have received in this campaign is to be endorsed by twelve Medal of Honor recipients. These heroes are some of the most highly decorated veterans in America. They support me because they know I have the leadership skills and executive experience to rebuild our military and keep our nation safe from rising threats such as those presented by Iran, Putin, and ISIS.
If I earn the honor of serving as Commander-in-Chief, I will reverse Barack Obama's devastating defense cuts. I will strengthen the NATO alliance and use America's newly realized status as an energy superpower to lessen others' dependence on Russian oil and gas, and the advantage it gives Putin. I will repair our alliance with Israel and regain the trust of our other partners in the Middle East in order to halt Iran's aggression. And I will have a strategy to defeat ISIS and Assad and protect American interests in the region.
I am ready to be Commander-in-Chief and lead America during a time of increasing turmoil around the world. Donald Trump has failed to demonstrate the temperament and understanding of our nation's challenges needed to live up to that responsibility.

Originally Posted on the National Review
  