
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of elected officials and leaders in Delaware. Romney for President also submitted the signatures and paperwork required to appear on the Delaware Republican primary ballot. "I am happy to have the support of so many in Delaware," said Mitt Romney. "In order to win in November 2012, I will need their help as I spread my pro-growth message and reach out to voters in Delaware and across the country." Announcing his support, House Republican Leader Greg Lavelle said, "After three years of failed attempts to restart our economy, it is clear that the liberal policies of President Obama are not working. We need a president who has displayed conservative leadership and understands how our economy actually functions. Mitt Romney displayed this leadership as both a governor and successful businessman. With his economic know-how, we will be able to get our economy working again." "Mitt Romney has emerged as the only candidate with the experience and plan to take on President Obama," said RNC National Committeeman Laird Stabler. "He is a conservative businessman who was able to use those principles as governor to cut taxes and spending. I look forward to working with these other leaders from Delaware to help Mitt Romney defeat President Obama and reverse the economic stagnation of the last three years." Delaware Elected Officials And Leaders Endorsing Mitt Romney:

House Republican Leader Greg Lavelle
State Senator Liane Sorenson
Dale Wolf; Former Governor and Lieutenant Governor
Janet Rzewnicki; Former State Treasurer
Bob Weiner; New Castle County Councilman
Laird Stabler; RNC National Committeeman
Everett Moore; Former Delaware Republican Party Chairman
Cathy Murray; Former Delaware Republican Party Vice Chairwoman
Steve Engebretson; Newark Region Republican Chairman
Hans Reigle; Kent County Republican Chairman
John Rollins; New Castle County Republican Chairman
Michael Fleming; Former New Castle County Republican Chairman
Rick Carroll; Former Wilmington Region Republican Chairman
Ted Cover; Wilmington Region Republican Vice Chairman
Jerry Martin; Former Brandywine Region Republican Chairman
Dave Burris; Former Sussex County Republican Chairman
Dave Jones; Former Newark Region Republican Chairman
Ron Sams; Former Sussex County Republican Chairman
Jim Ursomarso; Former Candidate for Lieutenant Governor and Wilmington City Republican Chairman
Michele Rollins; Former Congressional Candidate
Judy Travis; Former Candidate for State Senate
Louis Saindon; Former Candidate for State Representative
Josh Hoveln; University of Delaware College Republican Vice Chairman
Tom Schrandt

  