
    Campaign announces new slate of endorsements from local representatives, former representatives, community leaders and celebrities
SAN ANTONIO, TX (October 14, 2019) – On Monday, October 14, 2019, presidential candidate and former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and San Antonio Mayor Julián Castro announced 58 endorsements from local representatives, former representatives, community leaders, and celebrities.
Monday's endorsements build on the support Secretary Castro has received from Texas, Iowa, New Hampshire, Nevada, South Carolina, and throughout the country. 
"This campaign continues to gain momentum as more and more Americans learn about Julián's experience and vision for our country's future," said campaign manager Maya Rupert. "We've built a strong base of support from local elected officials, celebrities, and community leaders throughout the country that will help carry our campaign to victory next November."
Below is a snapshot of the leaders endorsing Secretary Castro:
"I support Secretary Castro because his progressive policies have reflected the priorities of the Latino community," said Noemi McGregor, President of the Democratic Hispanic Caucus of Florida. "Sec. Castro understands our community's complex dynamics -- we are Mexican, Cuban, Venezuelan, Puerto Rican, Central American. Sec. Castro has demonstrated that he's willing to address our individual needs, and not treat us as a monolithic group. We feel seen, heard, and empowered, and his candidacy will help mobilize our country's biggest voting block to the polls." 
"Julián Castro has the heart and knowledge to bring people together," said Arizona State Representative Raquel Teràn. "At a time when the opposition drives their narrative and actions so far to the right, we need someone like Julián who will stand firm on the fight for basic human needs for everybody."
"We need a bold leader who really listens, engages, and reflects on the issues and stories brought to them," said Angela Lang, a criminal justice reform advocate. "We need a leader who isn't afraid to speak truth to power in these dark and dangerous times. We need someone who will roll up their sleeves and get to work to restore the morality of this country.  I am confident that Secretary Castro is that leader. He has shown that no matter what zip code you are in, your socioeconomic status, your immigration status, who you love, and how you walk through the world, we all deserve the freedom to live thriving and healthy lives. His compassion and thoughtful approach is how we get this country back on the right track."
"I first heard Julian Castro speak at the Democratic National Convention in 2012 over satellite radio," said Actress and Comedian Cristela Alonzo. " I was in a car and pulled over the side of the road to hear his entire speech. I knew back then that I would support him if/when the time came when he would run for President. When I see Julian, I not only see future that this country could become but also the past that made him and people like me, what we are today. His roots come from generations of strong women that taught him that the impossible was always within his grasp. He comes from immigrants that sought a better life for their future and because of that, he seeks a better life for all Americans. His policies are an example of that, ranging from education to police reform. The direction of this country should be towards a time where we are all shown not only that we matter but that we can thrive and live in a country where we all are truly treated equal. Julian Castro has that vision."
The full list of endorsements is below:
John Leguizamo, ActorCristela Alonzo, Actor and ComedianBlair Imani, Historian and WriterAbby Govindan, Comedian and Writer Ana Breton, Digital Director, Full Frontal with Samantha bee 
State Representative Christina Morales, Texas  (D-145) State Representative Javier Martinez, New Mexico (D-11) State Representative Raquel Teràn, Arizona (D-30) State Representative Carlos Mariani, Minnesota (D-65B)Councilmember Joca Marquez, San Marcos, Texas (Place 5)Councilmember Andrew Lewis, North Westwood, California Councilmember Noel Gallo, Oakland, California (District 5)Councilmember Alondra Cano, Minneapolis, Minnesota (Ward 9)Councilmember Bryan Osorio, Delano, California 
Former Mayor Martin J. Chavez, Albuquerque, New Mexico  Former State Senator Leticia Van De Putte, TexasFormer State Representative Norma Chàvez, Texas Former State Representative Chente Quintanilla, TexasFormer Councilmember Maria Berriozabal, San Antonio, Texas
Noemi McGregor, President, Democratic Hispanic Caucus of FloridaDulce M. Sherman, Chair, Latinx Caucus of NebraskaCoby Owens, Executive Committee Wilmington At-Large, Delaware Democratic Party Rachel Gonzalez, Executive Committee Member, Missouri Democratic Party Spencer Bounds, Membership Director, Young Democrats of Texas Jose Trinidad Castaneda, Chair of the Orange County Housing & Transit Democratic Club, California
The Honorable Mickey Ibarra, Former Director of The White House Office of Intergovernmental Affairs under the Clinton administrationDr Ana M " Cha"Guzman, Educator, Former Chair of the White House Commission for Educational Excellence for Hispanic under the Clinton administrationGabriel Sandoval, Former Senior Advisor and Director of Policy, Obama White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanics & Senior Counsel in the U.S. Dept. of Education Office for Civil Rights Oscar Ramirez, Latino Victory National Committee Member and Obama Administration and Campaign Alumni Jennifer Godinez, Latinx Community Leader, MinnesotaVielka Wambold, Hispanic Community Leader Charlotte County, FloridaMarcie Stefan, Hispanic Community Leader Alachua County, FloridaMily Cancio, Hispanic Community Leader Collier County, FloridaRolando Chang Barrero, Hispanic Community Leader and Small Business Owner, West Palm Beach, Florida 
Angela Lang, Criminal Justice Advocate, Wisconsin Irvin Camacho, Bail Reform Leader and Immigrant Rights Advocate, ArkansasCiriac Alvarez, Immigrant Rights Advocate, UtahValeria Jimenez, Immigrant Rights Advocate, Utah Laura Padilla, Immigrant Rights Advocate, IllinoisJoe Bravo, Immigrant Rights Advocate, FloridaJessica Jin, Gun Reform Advocate, CaliforniaDiego Garcia, Gun Reform Advocate, IllinoisRolando Rios, Voting Rights Attorney & Advocate, TexasRev. Dr. Chuck Currie, United Church of Christ Ordained Minister, Director of the Center for Peace and Spirituality and University chaplain at Pacific University,OregonCasey Antonio Williams, Vice President, El Paso Queer Bar Association, Texas Libby Adler, Prof of Law & Women's, Gender, & Sexuality Studies, MassachusettsDr. Manuel Berriozábal, Professor Emeritus of Mathematics, TexasEmily M. Farris, Associate Professor of Political Science, Texas Marcelino Quiñonez, Educator, former Roosevelt School District Governing Board Member, ArizonaKaki Blackburn, Educator, Senior Policy Fellow, Teach Plus California, CaliforniaGeronimo Rodriguez, President, Austin Independent School District, Texas (* Title for informational purposes only)Christopher Jimenez, Founder, Montebello Youth Leadership Club, California Marshall Martinez, Community Leader, New Mexico Raj Salhotra, Houston Community Leader, TexasRay Mancera, El Paso Community Leader, TexasMargarita Ortega, Minneapolis Native Community Leader, MinnesotaLance LaMont, Minneapolis Native Community Leader, Minnesota Erica Jacquez, Los Angeles Community Leader, CaliforniaChristian Arana, San Francisco Community Leader, CaliforniaMontebello Youth Leadership Club
  