
    Mr. Prime Minister, Mrs. Holyoake, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen:
As you know, Mr. Prime Minister, a few days before the historic summit meeting at Manila in 1966, we visited New Zealand. You and your countrymen gave us one of the most heart-warming welcomes that we have ever received. Today it is our very great pleasure to reciprocate.
And so, here, on behalf of the American people, I take very great pleasure in welcoming you once again to our shores. This time we have a special welcome, too, for your charming wife.
It has been several years now, sir, since our nations have been joined in a harsh and a very difficult war in Asia. Your arrival here is an appropriate occasion to reaffirm, from the American point of view, just why we are involved in that struggle.
This Nation's course was set in 1964--and has been sustained ever since--by two very clear principles. The first principle was commitment. By resolution of Congress and by the clear declaration of the American people, we are a committed nation--committed to the causes of freedom and self-determination in many parts of the world-committed morally, committed by treaty, and committed by the clear logic of long term American self-interest.
The second principle was restraint. Our people have always been concerned to fulfill their commitments in Southeast Asia in ways which would justify no widening of the war by other nations.
In the latter half of 1964, the war in South Vietnam began to change character as North Vietnamese regular units were introduced into the South. In early 1965 it became clear that South Vietnamese boys or Asian boys could not alone hold the line in this Asian conflagration. And so, the United States and five Asian nations--including New Zealand--sent troops and materials to respond jointly to Hanoi's enlarged aggression.
Aggression was checked--but all restraint was used to try to limit the fighting--and every reasonable precaution was taken to try to contain the conflict.
So this joint effort by seven nations in South Vietnam has enabled that small and beleaguered country to rearm and to reorganize, so that they can increasingly carry the burden of this struggle. In the past 3 months alone, the South Vietnamese losses in combat have exceeded those of the United States by 24 percent.
Our struggle is not yet at an end, Mr. Prime Minister. But this much can be said, sir: It has never been clearer that the enemy will fail to force his political goals by military means. In that vital sense, aggression has suffered a clear and a significant defeat. It is significant, too, I think, that America's initiatives--as well set out in my statement of March 31--have opened the way for the aggressor to make peace. The nations and peace-loving peoples of the world have found it a positive invitation to deescalation and an honorable settlement of this conflict. We wait only for the other side to act with us, as all reasonable and humane men pray that we will act.
One day the war in Vietnam will end. No man can foretell when, but the day will surely come, and we work and we pray so that it may come soon. When it does come, Mr. Prime Minister, our nations will become more deeply engaged in another great struggle--healing the old wounds and building the New Asia where men of different races, cultures, and even ideologies can work together in peace and for progress.
That day, too, will come. When it will come we do not know, but when it does, it will be because New Zealand and the United States and many other nations in Asia have stood together, have prepared the way.
So this New Asia, already born, will grow to strong life and to splendid purpose. No one has worked harder to assure that day than you, sir, and the magnificent people that you represent.
So it is a very special pleasure for Mrs. Johnson and me to have you with us here in Washington and to have New Zealand in our hearts as we have for many, many years.
Thank you.
  