
    Click here for a pdf.
"By identifying climate change and energy dependence as issues undermining U.S. national security, and by providing urgent and creative national policies to address these threats, Senator Obama has demonstrated personal courage and political leadership. He deserves great credit for both." [Gary Hart, Chairman, Council for a Liveable World; Former U.S. Senator (1975-1987)]
"I support Barack Obama's comprehensive, bold, and thoughtful strategy to address global warming and to put our country on the path to energy independence. It is time to stop talking and time to take bold and effective actions towards reducing our greenhouse gas emissions. Our nation must become a leader in attacking global warming and Barack Obama is just the leader to do that." [Federico Pena, Former Secretary, U.S. Department of Energy (1997-1998); Former Secretary, U.S. Department of Transportation (1993-1997); Former Mayor, Denver (1983-1991)]
"Senator Obama's speech is a thoughtful and passionate call to arms, which will summon the best of the American character to meet the truly daunting challenges of climate change and energy security. He does not minimize the magnitude of the task, yet he warns that, if we accept half-measures, we will simply perpetuate our existing energy economy - and lose the war against global warming and oil dependency. The boldness of his vision is matched by the clarity and scope of his policy proposals. He is particularly eloquent in articulating what America must do to become a constructive voice in the global dialogue on climate change. Obama rightfully emphasizes that we must lead by example - by making far-reaching commitments to reduce emissions ourselves - before we will have moral standing to preach to the rest of the world. This is exactly what we need to do to restore American credibility and leadership and bring the world together around a new international climate change framework." [Bob Sussman, Former Deputy Administrator, Environmental Protection Agency (1993-1994)]
"Barack Obama has stepped up to the twin challenges of climate change and energy security with a bold vision. His multi-pronged action plan would move America back into global leadership in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions and the threat of climate change leading to global warming, more intense hurricanes, sea level rise, changed rainfall patterns, and other harms. His call for renewed vigor in pursuing an alternative energy future - backed with concrete plans for engaging both the public and private sector in the drive for innovation and new technology development -offers the promise of an America that is more secure, economically vibrant, and environmentally safer." [Daniel C. Esty, Hillhouse Professor of Environmental Law and Policy, Yale University; Former Deputy Assistant Administrator for Policy and Chief Climate Change Negotiator, Environmental Protection Agency (1991-1993)]
"There's no more pressing challenge facing our country than the threat of climate change. Barack has laid out a plan to meet that threat and capitalize on the opportunity to re-make our economy. More importantly, he is uniquely positioned to unite the country behind his plan, ensuring that the United States can lead the world to meet this challenge." [Tom Daschle, Former Senate Majority Leader (2001 - 2003); Former U.S. Senator (1987 - 2005)]
"For decades, the U.S. federal government has dithered while the planet has been getting warmer. Senator Obama's plan would impose tough but achievable goals for cutting America's emissions. And by leading the world, he would also get China and other developing countries to start cutting their emissions as well. The key to success in Senator Obama's plan is a strong emphasis on technology and American ingenuity. At the same time, his plan will make world energy supplies more secure and reliable by investing in more efficient vehicles, better biofuels and a host of other new technologies. We can't hope to make the planet safer unless the world's biggest oil consumer, America, leads the way." [David Victor, Professor, Stanford Law School; Director, Program on Energy and Sustainable Development, Stanford University]
"Senator Obama has crafted a credible long term vision along with strong initial steps toward reducing America's dependence on fossil fuels and its contribution to global warming. His proposals promise to restore US leadership in solving these problems. They are welcome news, because with the U.S. leading the way, other nations, including large emitters like China, may finally come together to solve these problems." [Michael Oppenheimer, Albert G. Milbank Professor of Geosciences and International Affairs, Princeton University; Director, Program in Science,
Technology and Environmental Policy (STEP), Princeton University]
"Senator Obama has produced precisely what is needed on the climate change and energy policy front: a coherent vision. Political recognition of the impact that climate change can have on our nation, and on the world, specifically including impacts on the poor, is vital.
Senator Obama has developed a comprehensive plan that recognizes and responds to the challenge through a combination of greatly increased standards for clean energy, a serious fund to invest in clean energy and jump-start U.S. business innovation, a cap and trade mechanism to use market forces to find areas to reduce emissions, and a clear approach to bringing the new clean energy economy and its jobs to all Americans.
At the same time, Senator Obama's plan re-engages the U.S. in the international discussions and negotiations to protect the planet - something that is sorely lacking now. This clear, integrated vision can turn the challenge of climate change into a chance to re-invest in the U.S. economy, and to benefit the planet and nations around the world at the same time." [Daniel Kammen, Distinguished Professor of Energy, University of California, Berkeley; Founding Director, Renewable and Appropriate Energy Laboratory, University of California, Berkeley]
"Global warming is a grave and growing threat to our national security. It requires an urgent and determined response that will recall but go far beyond the national effort to put our astronauts on the moon. In this speech, Barack Obama lays out a comprehensive strategy for reducing our dangerous energy dependence and for making America the leader in an international effort to save our planet." [ Tony Lake; National Security Adviser (1993-1997); Director of Policy Planning, State Department (1977-1981)]
"Barack Obama today put climate change at the top of his presidential agenda and outlined comprehensive, ambitious policies to counter global warming. He understands that for America to lead the world on this critical issue, we must begin by uniting at home to conserve energy, dramatically reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and create a green economy that benefits American workers and entrepreneurs. Senator Obama will ensure that America is once again a global leader rather than a laggard, by bringing bold vision, superior judgment and uncommon political courage to tackling the most pressing security and economic challenges facing our country and the world." [Dr. Susan Rice, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs (1997-2001); Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for African Affairs, the National Security Council, the White House (1995-1997); Director for International Organizations and Peacekeeping, National Security Council (1993-1995)]
"Barack Obama's plan to combat global warming and achieve energy security shows that investing in clean energy will drive good jobs and economic growth. This proposal reduces carbon emissions and boldly invests in clean energy alternatives and efficiency. From helping farmers locally produce bio-fuels, to training our youth in the 'green collar jobs' of the future; from helping US manufacturers retool to build more efficient cars, to creating a venture fund for emerging clean technology, this plan demonstrates that solving global warming is at the center of renewing America's economy." [Bracken Hendricks, Senior Fellow, Center for American Progress; Co-founder, Apollo Alliance; Co-author, "Apollo's Fire: Igniting America's Clean Energy Economy"]
"Solving our global warming problem is the moral, business, policy and political challenge of our generation. Senator Obama's energy plan focuses on the necessary global warming pollution reduction goals and advances smart strategies using clean energy technologies that can boost jobs and our economy while achieving the important and desired environmental progress. Too often, politicians pit our economy against the environment. Senator Obama's plan recognizes our ability to achieve both together and shows a policy path for doing so." [Howard A. Learner, Environmental Leader]
  