
    McLean, VA - Senator Fred Thompson's campaign today announced the top leadership of its operation in the State of Illinois. State Senator Bill Brady of Bloomington will serve as the Chairman of the campaign's state organization and Congressman Don Manzullo will serve as its Vice-Chairman.
Senator Brady has served in the Illinois Senate since 2002 and previously served in the Illinois House of Representatives from 1993 to 2001. He was a candidate for the Republican nomination for Governor in 2006, and he has continued to travel throughout Illinois to help build a stronger Republican Party in the state. He has been an advocate for stronger state ethics laws, has promoted a stronger business climate in Illinois and has fought against massive tax increases proposed by the current Democratic administration.
"The groundswell of support that we're seeing among Illinois Republicans makes me very excited to be a part of this organization," Senator Brady said. "Senator Thompson's consistently conservative record and his willingness to take on America's most pressing challenges uniquely prepares him to not only lead our party, but also win a general election, ensuring that our nation's military will remain strong, our families safe, and our taxes low."
Congressman Manzullo was first elected in 1992 to the U.S House of Representatives to serve the people of the 16th Congressional District of Illinois, which includes the counties of Winnebago, Boone, Stephenson, Jo Daviess, Ogle, Carroll, the majority of McHenry County and parts of DeKalb and Whiteside counties. Currently, he sits on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, where he is the top Republican on the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific and the Global Environment and a member of the Subcommittee on International Terrorism, Nonproliferation and Trade. He continues to serve on the Financial Services Committee, where he sits on the Subcommittee on Capital Markets, Insurance and Government Sponsored Enterprises and the Subcommittee on Domestic and Inter national Monetary Policy, Trade and Technology.
"I'm honored to serve as Vice Chairman of Fred Thompson's Illinois operation. Fred Thompson has the clear vision and common sense conservative principles that we need in Washington to address the modern challenges facing our nation," said Congressman Manzullo.
"These two leaders bring a wealth of experience to our Illinois organization," said National Political Director Randy Enwright. "Senator Brady and Congressman Manzullo and their combined experience in the state will help us lead a strong campaign in the state of Illinois."
  