
    MRS. OBAMA: What's going on, people? (Applause.) What are you doing? Where are you going? How's everybody?
CHILDREN: Good!
MRS. OBAMA: Are you excited to be here?
CHILDREN: Yes!
MRS. OBAMA: I am! Do you know why I am very excited? Because this is the last White House Kitchen Garden Harvest for me. The last time I'm going to be here to harvest the garden, and you guys got to come and help me. So I'm really, really happy that you all are here and you're ready to work.
But before we begin, I just want to take a moment because, since this is our last harvest, we of course want to recognize some special folks. We've got -- this is kind of a reunion harvest for us because we've got folks who have been part of making this White House garden a reality with us to help harvest. And I just want to announce some of those people who are here. We've got Sam Kass, who is going to help out. (Applause.) You guys remember Sam from way back. (Applause.)
Bill Yosses is here. We have Al Roker. (Applause.) We have our friends from NASA who are here -- it's great to see you guys. Will Allen. (Applause.) And I don't know if you can see him -- you might miss him -- but Alonzo Mourning is tucked in the back. He's very -- you know, can you just make some way? (Laughter.) Ashanti is here looking gorgeous. (Applause.) Donna Martin. Kathy Burns. (Applause.) We have our former students from Bancroft and Tubman. (Applause.) Dorotea and Tammy are here. (Applause.)
And I just want to take a moment because I didn't give him the recognition that I thought he deserved yesterday, but one of my favorite people at the White House, who has been a tremendous asset to us -- not because -- just because he's taken such good care of this garden, but he is the real person who loves and cares for Sunny and Bo, and that is our dear, dear friend, Dale Haney. (Applause.) Right here, Dale, thank you! Thank you for your many, many years of excellent work to make this garden special. I hope you feel as proud of this White House Kitchen Garden as I do, because it wouldn't have happened if it weren't for you, Dale, so thank you. Thank you so much. (Applause.)
So the kids who are here today represent so many parts of Let's Move! And our programs and initiatives -- Let's Move! Cities, Towns and Counties; Let's Move! Child Care. I could go on and on, but we are excited that they all could be here today to help us. And we're going to have a few more special guests as well, so we'll keep some of those a surprise. We have Rosita and Elmo who are here with us.
ELMO AND ROSITA: Surprise! (Applause.)
MRS. OBAMA: They are going to be -- they are going to commentate the harvest. They're going to give a play by play of everything that is picked and stored, and all that good stuff.
ELMO: All that good stuff.
MRS. OBAMA: Elmo and Rosita, are you ready for this?
ELMO: Yes, ma'am! Let's do it!
MRS. OBAMA: Are you excited?
ROSITA: Yes, very excited!
MRS. OBAMA: How excited are you?
ELMO: Very excited! (Applause.)
MRS. OBAMA: All right, everyone, let's get to work! Let's harvest the garden! (Applause.)
  