
    MONTGOMERY--The Alabama Democratic Conference (ADC), one of the nation's oldest and most powerful black Democratic organizations, endorsed Hillary Clinton for president at their ADC annual conference in Birmingham on October 13. The ADC endorsement has been a reliable predictor of who will eventually become the Democratic Party's nominee.
"I considered the ADC endorsement process as the first caucus in the nation, the first test for candidates with voters, and a determination of how Alabama will vote," said Dr. Joe Reed, chairman of the Alabama Democratic Conference. "Hillary Clinton winning the ADC endorsement will go a long way to ensure a primary victory not only in Alabama, but in other states as well."
Hillary Clinton was the keynote speaker at the ADC Convention and gave a rousing 45 minute speech that had numerous standing ovations. More than 800 activists from around the state filled the room, and Alabama Democratic leaders such as Lt. Gov. Jim Folsom, Agriculture Commissioner Ron Sparks, and Birmingham Mayor-elect Larry Langford were in attendance.
"Senator Clinton stood in front of great rank-and-file Democrats and gave one of the best speeches I have ever heard," said Reed. "Not only do I think that she went a long way of securing the 60 delegates of Alabama, but the impact of having party activists like the ADC with you can build momentum across the South and the rest of the nation."
Recent polling by the Capitol Survey Research Center, the polling arm of the Alabama Education Association, shows Clinton with an expanding substantial lead among likely Democratic voters. Clinton was favored by 45 percent of those polled, while Barack Obama garnered 25 percent and John Edwards nine percent. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5 percent.
"Clinton's numbers have remained steady throughout the summer and going into the important fall season," said Dr. Gerald Johnson, Director of CSRC. "In September she significantly increased her lead to 20 points over Obama, while all the other candidates stayed the same."
Johnson noted that while Obama started low in the polls earlier in the year, his numbers increased and seemed to peak in July, and fall off since then. "In polling most important thing to look at are trends," said Johnson. "And the trends at this point are certainly in Clinton's favor."
Alabama is shaping up to be an important battleground for the nomination of both parties. With the February 5 primary date known as Super Tuesday driving presidential candidates to develop regional strategies, the South is increasing being seen as playing a pivotal role nationally, with Alabama, Arkansas, Georgia, and Tennessee holding primaries on that date. Early endorsements from Alabama political groups and public figures have been sought as candidates try to gain traction in the South.
"Senator Clinton is running a strong campaign, both here in Alabama and across the country," said Reed. "While we have a great field of candidates and our party would be well represented if any of them were our nominee, Clinton is the strongest candidate to win back the White House."
  