
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Michigan conservative activists Gerald and Sonja "Smokie" Wall have announced their endorsement of Governor Mitt Romney for the 2008 Presidential election. The former Michigan Brownback Campaign leaders have joined Governor Romney's team following Senator Brownback's announcement that he would no longer seek the Republican Party nomination. Gerald and Smokie Wall have been involved in politics since 1976, and Gerald is currently a 4th District Michigan Republican Party State Committee Member and Chairman of the Roscommon County Republican Club.
"Gerald and Smokie are grassroots leaders in the truest sense. During their long history in Republican politics, they have fought for the sanctity of life, family values, and traditional marriage," said Governor Romney. "I look forward to working with them to strengthen Michigan families as well as families across the country."
Gerald and Smokie added, "Governor Romney represents our values and the values of Michigan voters. We give our full fledged support to Governor Romney because of his leadership in the fight to strengthen families. He is the candidate who will unite the conservative coalition of economic, defense, and pro-family Republicans. And, as a Michigan native, he can win Michigan in the general election which will be critical in defeating Hillary Clinton. We are proud to be part of his team."
Background on Gerald and Sonja "Smokie" Wall:
Gerald And Sonja "Smokie" Wall Have Been Involved In Michigan Politics Since 1976. Prior to joining Governor Romney's campaign, Gerald and Smokie spearheaded grassroots efforts in support of former Presidential Candidate Senator Sam Brownback. Gerald is currently a 4th District State Republican Party Committee Member and has served as Chairman of the Roscommon County Republican Club for 12 years. Gerald has previously served as the 16th District Chairman, the 4th District Vice Chairman and in 1981 founded the Taylor Republican Party. Smokie has previously served as the 16th District Vice Chair and Treasurer, as well as Treasurer of the Taylor Republican Club and Roscommon County Republican Club. Gerald and Smokie both worked on Ronald Reagan's 1976 Presidential Campaign and have served as Precinct Delegates since 1970. As previous National Convention Delegates and Alternates, Gerald and Smokie have attended five Presidential Inaugurations. They have been married for forty-nine years.
  