
    31 Iowa LGBT leaders unite behind Hillary
DES MOINES, IA – Iowans for Hillary today announced the LGBT leadership council for Hillary, a group of 31 Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgendered (LGBT) Iowa leaders who support Hillary Clinton. These community leaders have joined together to support Hillary because she is the most qualified and experienced candidate to provide equal rights for LGBT Americans, pass federal hate crime legislation and provide every American with health insurance. Across the Hawkeye State, the LGBT leadership council will work to increase LGBT participation in the caucuses for Hillary.
"Senator Clinton has demonstrated the strength and determination to provide a better future for all Americans," said Rich Eychaner of Des Moines. "She has the experience, the competency and the political will to forge a strong economy for while protecting all Americans from unjust social policies."
"I look at Hillary Clinton and I see a real leader who has the courage to fight for change," said Kim Painter of Iowa City. "She has been a staunch advocate for the GLBT community and has the strength and experience to fight for us as president."
"I am so pleased to have the support of these leaders from Iowa's LGBT community," said Senator Clinton. "I've heard from members of the LGBT community across Iowa and they are ready for change and ready for a president who will correct the errors of the Bush administration and rebuild the middle class economy. I will continue to fight for equal rights for all Americans as President."
Hillary has been a longtime friend of the LGBT community. She has fought for policies that promote equality, while taking a strong stand against forces that have tried to marginalize the LGBT community. As President, Hillary will replace the divisive leadership of the past six years and work with the LGBT community and allies in Congress to pass hate crimes legislation and overturn the military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy. She knows that working together, we can continue to combat hate and stand united for equality.
Iowa's LGBT Leadership Council:
Joe Apel – Waverly, Bremer County
Wartburg Gay Straight Alliance (GSA) member
Pat Brockett – Decorah, Winneshiek County
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) member
Heath Coulson – Waterloo, Black Hawk County
Writing instructor
Don L. Curry – Des Moines, Polk County
Book editor
Jason Dunn – Des Moines, Polk County
Attorney
Barb Ettleson – Decorah, Winneshiek County
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) member
Rich Eychaner – Des Moines, Polk County
Business owner and Philanthropist
John Fitzpatrick – Iowa City, Johnson County
Retired educator
Board of Directors, National Art Educators Association
Justin W. Hancock – Des Moines, Polk County
Senior Garden Editor, Meredith Corporation
Carolyn Jenison – Des Moines, Polk County
River Bend Association resident and neighborhood activist
Jessica Kardon – Iowa City, Johnson County
Psychiatric Nurse
Kasey Kincaid – Des Moines, Polk County
Attorney
Former Chair, Polk County Democratic Party
James Klostermann – Dubuque, Dubuque County
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) member
Gary Lawson – Davenport, Scott County
President of the Board of Directors, AIDS Project Quad Cities
Greg Link – Pella, Marion County
President, Common Ground, Central College
President, Coalition for a Multicultural Campus, Central College
Central College Student Senate
Bridget Malone – Iowa City, Johnson County
Chair, Iowa City Pride
Vice President, Connections
Rich McCarty, ABD – Iowa City, Johnson County
Department of Religious Ethics, University of Iowa
Kim Painter – Iowa City, Johnson County
Johnson County Recorder
Hersh Rodasky – Council Bluffs, Pottawattamie County
Associate professor, Iowa Western Community College
Dennis Runde – Dubuque, Dubuque County
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) member
Bob Samon – Essex, Page County
Innkeeper, Railroad Inn
Campbell Spencer – Des Moines, Polk County
Former National LGBT Outreach Director for the Democratic National Committee and Gore-Lieberman 2000
Sandra Stevens – Iowa City, Johnson County
Board of Directors, Connections
David Stewart – Davenport, Scott County
Local activist
Maura Strassberg – Grinnell, Poweshiek County
Professor, Drake University Law School
Michael Terrill – Clinton, Clinton County
President, Clinton County Chapter of the National Alliance on Mental Illness (NAMI)
Treasurer, Iowa Chapter of the United States Psychiatric Rehabilitation Association
Mayetta Usher – Charles City, Floyd County
Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) member
Renee Usher – Charles City, Floyd County
Vietnam Navy veteran Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays (PFLAG) member
Susan E. Webster – Norwalk, Warren County
Realtor-Ecobroker
John Wilson – Waterloo, Black Hawk County
Editor of Accessline
Mike Yowell – Council Bluffs, Pottawattamie County
Founder, Council Bluffs Community Alliance
  