
    State Representative Ken Kennedy joins campaign, former Congressman Butler Derrick endorses Richardson
COLUMBIA, SC-- Today the Richardson for President campaign named State Representative Ken Kennedy (D- Williamsburg) as a co-chairperson of its South Carolina Steering Committee. Kennedy has represented Williamsburg County in the state legislature since 1991 and currently serves on the Ways and Means Committee.
Representative Kennedy cited diplomatic experience and a no-nonsense plan to end the war in Iraq as primary reasons why he supports Governor Richardson.
"Bill Richardson is the only major candidate who understands that we cannot leave our troops in harm's way in Iraq any longer," Kennedy said. "As a sitting governor and world-renowned diplomat, I know that Bill Richardson has the experience to get our country back on track. I am proud to join the Richardson team and look forward to increasing support for Governor Richardson around South Carolina."
As part of the Richardson for President campaign's growing momentum around the country, former United States Representative Butler Derrick announced his support for Governor Richardson. Derrick represented South Carolina's 3rd Congressional district for ten terms between 1975 and 1995. Congressman Derrick served for twelve years on the House Budget Committee and chaired its Reconciliation Process. He also served as Chief Majority Whip.
"I have known Bill Richardson for a long time," Derrick said. "I served with him in Congress and have admired his career. He has been a legislator, a diplomat, a cabinet secretary, and he has run a state. There is no other candidate in this race with his breadth of experience. He is perfectly suited to lead our nation in these difficult times."
Richardson commented on his campaign's growing presence in South Carolina.
"I am honored to have the support of Representative Kennedy and Congressman Derrick," Governor Richardson said. "People around the country are hearing my message of change and experience, and it is starting to resonate. I look forward to continuing my rise in the polls in South Carolina with the help of these distinguished gentlemen."
  