
    As I launch a two-week book tour around the USA promoting "This is Herman Cain! My Journey to the White House," it's a perfect time to reflect upon my campaign for president, and how we got to this point.
Entering the race to make the world a better place for my grandchildren – I made a commitment to do what I could to bring this country back to what Ronald Reagan so famously referred to as the "shining city on a hill."
With 14 million Americans out of work, an unemployment rate of over 9 percent, a weakened military and a weakened dollar – we're facing the worst economic times since the Great Depression.
My message for Barack Obama is this: Your Hope and Change just ain't working!
We need leadership in the White House – not a community organizer. And as a successful business leader and CEO, my executive experience in turning around struggling companies is just what this country needs.
Growing up in the segregated South with little money, my family was rich in faith, love and a belief in the American dream. I learned from my parents, Lenora and Luther Cain, Jr., that empowerment – not entitlement – was the key to achieving success in life. You have to work hard, and given the right national policies for less government and lower taxes, the sky is the limit.
It's true that I'm not a politician. Some say that means I can't understand the government. Washington is full of politicians – how's that working out for us?
And even though the Cain Train is picking up steam – finishing first in this week's Zogby poll with 28 percent, compared to Rick Perry's 18 percent and Mitt Romney's 17 percent, many in the mainstream media still haven't given me a shot.
Fortunately, more people have started to take note. Last week's opinion piece by Daniel Henninger in the Wall Street Journal, "Taking Cain Seriously," was a refreshing sign that my message is resonating with Americans.
Though after a resounding victory in the Florida Straw Poll where my 37 percent was more than double the combined 29 percent for my friends Mitt Romney and Rick Perry, others in the media are still asking me if I'd support them if they get the nomination.
Looking at the Florida results, shouldn't the question really be if I think Gov. Romney and Gov. Perry will support me when I win the nomination?
Another indication of just how strong, yet underreported, Cain grassroots supporters are is the Gallup Positive Intensity Index. Since I entered the race, I've won this poll 16 out of 18 weeks – including the latest one with 26 percent, compared to Rick Perry's 22 percent. We just don't hear much about it in the press.
Admittedly, a major challenge has been name recognition – building over the year from 21 percent in April to 51 percent now. But then again, I haven't been running for president for five years, nor have I been governing a large state. We've had to start from scratch.
But we're making progress – and thanks to determined staff and volunteers, plus great friends, we're picking up thousands of new supporters each day.
And although my campaign doesn't have the resources of some others, the Florida results show that it's about the message – not the money. It will be Americans who elect the next president, not the media.
As much as the establishment has tried to make this a two-man race, it has become abundantly clear that is just not the case.
My vision for economic recovery – the 9-9-9 Plan – gains a stronger following nationwide every day.
While the other GOP candidates tinker around the edges for tax reform, my view is that we need to throw the whole broken system out. We need a fresh start to expand the tax base and stop the Obama-fueled class warfare we're seeing today.
It's also time for a strong leader – one who knows the difference between our friends and our enemies – and who stops giving money to our enemies. We need a leader who doesn't take his cues from the UN – but rather leads with America's interests at heart.
Even as some continue to question my chances to win the GOP nomination – despite my surge – I'd say that the long shot is looking more like a much shorter shot.
Lastly, thanks to everyone who has jumped aboard the Cain Train. Together we will take this country back to common sense solutions!
  