
    Booker earns field-leading 85th New Hampshire endorsement
Manchester, NH — New Hampshire State Representative Christy Bartlett (Concord), a four-term legislator and advocate for women's reproductive rights, today endorsed Cory Booker for president, saying she agrees with his core values and beliefs. Bartlett decided to back Booker after watching his passionate remarks at the New Hampshire convention last month and seeing him last Thursday at Politics & Eggs, where he earned two rare standing ovations at the typically staid event.
"After years of Trump's division, we need a nominee who will work to bring together and heal our country and our world, which is why I'm endorsing Cory Booker for president," said State Rep. Christy Bartlett. "He will work to repair the damage of the last few years and make progress on the issues working families in New Hampshire care about most. In particular, Cory has stood out for standing up for women's right to a safe, legal abortion -- and urging other men to be strong advocates for reproductive rights. At this critical moment, Cory is the best candidate to excite voters across the country, defeat Donald Trump and unite the nation so we can make justice and opportunity real for everyone."
Bartlett represents Concord Ward 10 and is serving her fourth term. In the State House, she has focused on protecting access to safe, legal abortion; expanding Medicaid; raising the minimum wage to a living wage for New Hampshire workers; and increasing funding to combat the opioid crisis.
Bartlett is the latest state elected official to back Booker in the 2020 primary. Booker has earned a total of 85 Granite State endorsements -- more than any other 2020 candidate -- including three state senators, 15 state representatives and the state's longest-serving mayor.
This endorsement comes on the heels of Booker's latest visit to New Hampshire and after Booker raised more money in the third quarter than in the previous two quarters. Booker exceeded his goal of raising $1.7 million over the final ten days of September -- the campaign raised $2.1 million over that period -- and now has the resources to grow the campaign in New Hampshire and in other early-voting states.
  