
    The President. Well, I thank you all. Welcome to the White House and back to the White House for some of you. It's a great pleasure to have you here, just as it was a great pleasure to watch these gentlemen perform in the World Series, and all of my words of welcome are intended for all of you, also.
In that Interstate 70 series, the "Show Me" spirit really came through. Your team showed the world, and you did it royally. You've proved to America what a never-say-die spirit can do. Even after losing the first two games of the series at home, you met the challenge, and you kept America in suspense for seven full games and rallied to bring the World Series trophy to Kansas City. Only five other teams in World Series history have managed to overcome such a margin.
Now, look at how enthusiastic I'm being in—I pitched in a World Series, but I was with the Cardinals at the time. [Laughter] Three games—it was the 1926 World Series, but I was doing it in 1952 in a movie. [Laughter] I had an edge on all of you in the sense that I knew the script in advance, so I knew it was going to come out right. [Laughter]
Well, Dick Howser, you may not have the words to describe it, but in the words of Bret Saberhagen, it was a dream come true. And what a dream it's been for Bret—a 20 and 6 regular season record—at 21, the youngest player ever to win the World Series Most Valuable Player, a leading candidate for the Cy Young Award, and a proud papa to brand-new Drew William. You're not only a hot pitcher, Bret, but I understand you're a pretty good coach, too. [Laughter] And if you don't think so, just ask Jeannine.
The Royals have some super talented players. George Brett, the third baseman who has captured the essence of hitting, has become something of a Kansas City institution. He's an inspiration for future ballplayers all across the country. Then, there's Willie Wilson, who batted .367 in the series; Frank White, the ever-steady second baseman; slugger Steve Balboni and Hal McRae; and, of course, Dan Quisenberry, the premier relief man, whom I called Jim on the phone the other night. [Laughter] Heads will roll in the west wing for that. [Laughter]
But it's the Royals' team play, a combination of the great spirit and hard work of every one of you on the roster, that brought you this championship. I always like to point to experience as a major element of success, but it's hard in this case when you could add up the ages of three of the five starting pitchers and come up with fewer birthdays than I've seen. [Laughter] Seriously, you've fought long and hard throughout the season. And your dedication has paid off. And now that you've proved you're the champions of the world, what do you do for an encore?Mr. Howser. Next year.
The President. All right. Congratulations. God bless all of you.
[At this point, the President was presented with a Royals jacket and cap.]
Reporter. Mr. President, have you sent your new arms proposal to Gorbachev?
The President. I'm making an announcement this afternoon.
Q. Right here?
Q. —a letter, sir?
Q. Are we going to see you in the Briefing Room, sir?
The President. Yes.
Q. Fifty-percent cut?
The President. I'll see you soon.
Q. Have a nice day!
Q. It's a date.
Q. Make it early!
  