
    Democratic Leaders Call Governor Bullock the Leader to Safeguard Democracy, Fight for Rural Iowa
Des Moines, IA – Today, Montana Governor Steve Bullock announced four new endorsements from Democratic leaders across Iowa:

Woodbury County Supervisor Marty Pottebaum
Clinton County Auditor Eric Van Lancker
Former Iowa Senate Assistant Majority Leader Staci Appel
Former Warren County Democratic Party Chair Don Ruby

The new endorsements bring the number of Iowa Democratic leaders who have endorsed Governor Bullock for President to 16 – spanning local government, education, agriculture, and community activism. They're backing Bullock's campaign because he's the proven leader who can beat Donald Trump, repair our broken politics, and ensure every Iowan gets a fair shot at success.
"I'm so pleased to stand with these great Democratic leaders as we grow our campaign in communities from river to river," said Montana Governor Steve Bullock. "This election is about more than beating Donald Trump. It's about finally fixing our broken politics and ensuring every American gets a fair shot at success."
Marty Pottebaum, Woodbury County Supervisor
"Governor Steve Bullock is proof that our politics doesn't have to be as broken as it seems. He's governed a red state while passing major progressive victories; and he's won elections in the same places we need to win in 2020. Steve can not only win the Iowa Caucus, he can help turn Iowa blue and elect talented Democrats up and down the ballot. That's the kind of leadership our party needs to defeat Donald Trump and get our country back on track."
Eric Van Lancker, Clinton County Auditor
"If Democrats are going to win back the White House and other places we've lost, there is no candidate better than Montana Governor Steve Bullock. In a state as red as Montana, he's brought Democrats and Republicans together to safeguard our democratic rights, clean up our campaign finance system, and ensure that a fair shot at success is not a privilege for the few, but a right for everyone."
Staci Appel, former Iowa Senate Assistant Majority Leader representing Warren County 
"Donald Trump has put the foundation of our country at stake, and our Democratic nominee must have the strength of character to put our nation back on track. That's why I'm proud to endorse Steve Bullock. After listening to all of the candidates, Steve stood far and above the rest as a clear leader to protect and defend the integrity of our democracy. I look forward to sharing that vision over the next four months as we head into the Caucus."
Don Ruby, former Warren County Democratic Party Chair
"I'm endorsing Governor Steve Bullock because he's proven he can make our progressive goals a reality. Communities are bearing the brunt of inaction from Washington, with special interests pouring money into our politics to halt progress even before it begins. As a Governor who knows how to get things done, Steve will bring about the systemic change we need — not years down the line, but right now."
  