
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Romney for President today launched its newest Spanish-language radio ad. The ad features Craig Romney introducing his father to voters and discussing Governor Romney's exceptional record of success in the public and private sectors.
The ad is titled "Mi Padre" and will begin airing today in South Florida. The English and Spanish transcripts and audio link are below.
English Script For "Mi Padre" (Radio:60):
CRAIG ROMNEY: "Hello, I want to speak to you about someone you (people) in South Florida might not know. He's a Republican leader who is running for President of the United States.
"This man is Mitt Romney.
"A man of strength. A man of action. A man of faith. A conservative who understands and respects Hispanics and particularly Cuban exiles and others who have come to our country in search of liberty and opportunity.
"Mitt Romney's record speaks for itself: successful as a businessman, saved the Olympics, and as Governor of Massachusetts, lowered taxes and stimulated the economy.
"But above all, Mitt Romney is a family man, a great father, husband and grandfather.
"I know because Mitt Romney is my dad.
"I'm Craig Romney and I invite you to get to know my father, Mitt Romney, a leader who loves our nation, recognizes our challenges and has solutions to confront them.
"Visit MittRomney.com."
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "I am Mitt Romney and I approved this message."
ANNOUNCER: "Paid for by Romney for President."
Spanish Script For "Mi Padre" (Radio:60):
CRAIG ROMNEY: "Hola, quiero hablarles de alguien que ustedes en el Sur de la Florida posiblemente no conocen. Un l?der republicano que aspira a la presidencia de los Estados Unidos.
"Ese hombre es Mitt Romney.
"Un hombre firme. Un hombre de acci?n. Un hombre de fe. Un conservador que entiende y respeta a los hispanos, incluyendo al exilio cubano y a otros que han venido a nuestro pa?s en busca de libertad y oportunidades.
"El record de Mitt Romney habla por si solo. Exitoso como empresario, salv? las Olimpiadas, y como gobernador de Massachusetts baj? los impuestos y estimul? la economia.
"Pero sobre todo, Mitt Romney es un hombre de familia, un gran padre, esposo y abuelo.
"Yo lo se porque Mitt Romney es mi papa.
"Soy Craig Romney y les invito a conocer mejor a mi padre, Mitt Romney, un l?der que ama a nuestra nacien, reconoce nuestros retos y tiene soluciones para enfrentarlos.
"Visita MittRomney.com".
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "Soy Mitt Romney y apruebo este mensaje".
LOCUTOR: "Pagado por Romney para Presidente".
To listen to "Mi Padre," please visit: http://www.mittromney.com/Audio/Mi_Padre.mp3
  