
    Our destiny, beyond the Earth, is not only a matter of national identity, but a matter of national security.President Donald J. Trump
FORMING SPACE FORCE: To safeguard American dominance in space, President Donald J. Trump is working to form a Space Force as a sixth branch of the Armed Forces. 

President Trump has received six recommendations, unanimously approved by his National Space Council, regarding the establishment of the United States Space Force.
The six recommendations presented to the President call for:

Forming a United States Space Command to control our space forces and develop the tactics, techniques, and procedures for military space operations.
Establishing the Space Force as a separate and distinct branch of the military whose mission will be to organize, train, and equip combat space forces.
Calling on Congress to authorize the establishment of a Space Force and provide funding for the United States Space Command.
Launching a joint review by the National Space Council and National Security Council of existing space operational authorities for meeting national security objectives, informed by DOD's assessment of the authorities required.
Creating a Space Development Agency to ensure Americans in the Space Force have cutting-edge warfighting capabilities.
Creating collaborative mechanisms with the Intelligence Community to improve unity of efforts for the development of space capabilities and operations.



PREPARING FOR THE THREATS OF THE 21ST CENTURY: President Trump is preparing our military to protect against the wide range of challenges we face today, including in space. 

Space is now recognized as a warfighting domain and the United States must be prepared to meet the emerging threats we face in this new battlefield.
Recognizing this, President Trump is taking action to ensure that the American military is equipped to protect our Nation and preserve our freedom to operate in, from, and to space.
The recommendations follow the President's direct call for the formation of a Space Force as the sixth branch of the Armed Forces.

On June 18, 2018, President Trump directed the Department of Defense to immediately begin the process necessary to establish a Space Force as a new military branch



RENEWING AMERICAN LEADERSHIP IN SPACE: President Trump is keeping his promise to restore America's legacy of leadership in space

President Trump has signed three space policy directives to restore and revitalize America's space program. These directives will:

Reorient our space program toward human exploration of deep space.
Unleash the power of America's commercial space enterprise.
Protect our vital space assets by improving space traffic management.


In June 2017, President Trump signed an Executive Order reviving the National Space Council for the first time in nearly a quarter century.
President Trump unveiled the National Space Strategy in March of 2018 to prioritize American strength and competitiveness in the space environment.

  