
    Audio of McAuliffe's Visit Available Online
(COLUMBIA, SC) – The Hillary Clinton campaign today announced six new endorsements across the state that followed Friday's regional office openings featuring national Hillary Campaign Chairman and former National Democratic Party Chairman Terry McAuliffe. The new endorsements include:

Orangeburg Sheriff Larry Williams
Orangeburg Auditor Roger Cleckley
Charleston City Councilwoman Yvonne Evans
Florence County Councilman Al Bradley
Lake City Mayor Lovith Anderson Jr.
Clover School Board Trustee Kathy Cantrell of York County

"I know Hillary's got the right stuff, the stuff of experience. In the last few weeks I've seen her plans to make college affordable for every American family, to help people save for retirement and to help families balance the pressures of work and family," Orangeburg Sheriff Williams said. "Now that we've got an office for the campaign here locally, I plan to help make sure Orangeburg supports a positive change in America, supports a candidate with the experience to make it happen and elects Hillary Clinton our next President," Cleckley said.
McAuliffe traveled the state Thursday and Friday cutting the ribbon at new Hillary regional offices in Orangeburg, Charleston, Florence and Rock Hill. While in Orangeburg, McAuliffe spoke at the Orangeburg Taste of Elected Officials event before sampling the cooking of area officials. State Senator John Matthews spoke at the Orangeburg office opening as did Cleckley.
The Charleston office opening included remarks by State Senator Robert Ford, State Representative and former chair of the South Carolina Legislative Black Caucus David Mack, County Councilwoman Colleen Condon and Charleston City Councilwoman Yvonne Evans. "I support Hillary and I'm so glad to see a regional office opened here in Charleston to organize the grassroots support in the area," Charleston Councilwoman Evans said. "We're going to help put Hillary in the White House because we need her. Charleston needs her and our whole country needs her."
In Florence, Mayor Frank Willis and State Rep. Terry Alexander spoke at the event before introducing McAuliffe. Bradley and Anderson later agreed Hillary was not only the best choice for America, but running the strongest campaign in the Pee Dee. "She's the one to win. She's the right person for the job and she's got the best organization on the ground here in the Pee Dee," Bradley said. "Hillary's time in the Pee Dee and the campaign organization here have put her out in front in the Democratic race. Every other campaign is going to be working that much harder so we'll have to keep the pace up to keep the lead," Anderson added.
Congressman John Spratt spoke at the York office for Hillary opening and introduced McAuliffe. Audio of McAuliffe discussing the office openings and the South Carolina campaign can be downloaded for broadcast and other media purposes at the following online addresses:
McAuliffe evaluates South Carolina's role in the Democratic Nominationhttp://www.hillaryclinton.com/files/audio/Terry_McAuliffe_on__SC's_role_...
McAuliffe discusses Hillary in South Carolinahttp://www.hillaryclinton.com/files/audio/Terry_McAuliffe_on_Hillary_in_...
McAuliffe discusses his travels in South Carolina opening regional campaign officeshttp://www.hillaryclinton.com/files/audio/Terry_McAuliffe_on_his_trip_to...
  