
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included.
October 21
The President met at the White House with David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs.
Following his trip to Kansas and Minnesota, the President went to Camp David, Md.
October 24
The President returned to the White House from Camp David.
The President met at the White House with:
—the Cabinet;
—Mike Rossman, world light heavy-weight boxing champion;
—James T. Mcintyre, Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, Ambassador Robert S. Strauss, Special Representative for Trade Negotiations, Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison, and Members of Congress, to discuss the anti-inflation program;
—Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Paul C. Warnke, Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, and Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President.
October 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina;
—Robert R. Bowie, Deputy Director, National Intelligence, Central Intelligence Agency, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Ted Leszkiewicz, national commander of the American Veterans of World War II, Korea and Viet Sam.
The President greeted participants at the briefing held by administration officials for southern black leaders in the State Dining Room at the White House.
The President went on an inspection tour of Camp Hoover, Va.
October 26
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski.
The President announced the United States Delegation to the independence celebrations of Dominica on November 3. Frank V. Ortiz, Jr., American Ambassador to Barbados, will head the delegation, attending as Personal Representative of the President with the rank of Special Ambassador. Mrs. Ortiz will accompany the Ambassador. The members of the delegation, also with the rank of Special Ambassador, will be:
JOHN D. ARCHBOLD of Upperville, Va.;
MICHAEL L. MADUFF of Chicago, Ill.;
GABRIELLE K. MCDONALD of Houston, Tex.;
HAROLD E. ROGERS, JR., of San Francisco, Calif.;
HENRY L. STRAUSS of Denver, Colo.
October 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Secretaries Vance and Brown, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mike Mansfield, U.S. Ambassador to Japan;
—Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation and Chairman of the Council on Wage and Price Stability, and Barry P. Bosworth, Director, Council on Wage and Price Stability, and Dr. Schultze;
—Administration officials to discuss the fiscal year 1980 budget.
  