
    October Women for Hillary Drive Update, House Parties Planned for Hillary's Birthday
(COLUMBIA) -- As part of the month-long South Carolina Women for Hillary grassroots drive, the campaign today announced Women for Hillary coordinators in every county of the Palmetto State. "We're organizing in every corner of the state to get out the word to South Carolina women that Hillary is the right choice for the White House, not because she's a woman, but because she has the experience it takes to fix George Bush's mess," Greenville Vice Mayor Pro-Tempore Diane Smock, a member of the South Carolina Women for Hillary Leadership Committee, said.
The 25-member leadership committee and its month long-grassroots drive was announced October 2. The leadership committee, working in conjunction with the newly announced Women for Hillary county coordinators, is organizing house parties across the state tomorrow night to celebrate Hillary's birthday, Friday, October 26. "It's an organized effort to make sure women in the Palmetto State know Hillary, know her record, her vision and her faith. There are events and efforts across the country, but we're focused on why Hillary is right for South Carolina," Richland County Councilwoman Bernice Scott, another member of the leadership committee, said.
Last week, the Hillary Clinton campaign focused nationally on Women Changing America, including events in South Carolina. Former President of the South Carolina Democratic Women's Council Louisiana Wright endorsed Hillary and spoke at a campaign announcement at USC Aiken unveiling Hillary's Work-Family Agenda and a report detailing its impact in the Palmetto State. The plan outlined Hillary's new work-family policy to expand paid family leave programs at the state level, expand the Family Medical Leave Act to cover an additional 13 million Americans, and ensure that parents are not forced to choose between keeping their job and caring for their families. South Carolina was one of 47 states represented last week when nearly 1,000 women convened in Washington, DC for a National Women's Finance Council Summit – an unprecedented event that raised over $1.5 million for Hillary's campaign and energized supporters across the country.
For a complete list of Women for Hillary county coordinators, contact the South Carolina Hillary campaign at 803-667-3149. To view a complete list of the Women for Hillary South Carolina Leadership Committee, announced earlier this month, visit www.hillaryclinton.com.
  