
    The President today announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to serve as members of the Federal Council on the Aging. The President also announced his intention to designate Adelaide Attard Chairman.
Margaret Long Arnold, of Washington, D.C., is presently coordinator, women's activities, National Retired Teachers Association of the American Association of Retired Persons.
Adelaide Attard, of New York, is presently Nassau County Commissioner and member of the National Advisory Committee, 1981 White House Conference on Aging.
Nelda Ann Lambert Barton, of Kentucky, is presently president and chairman of the board of Health Systems, Inc., in Corbin, Ky.
Edna Bogosian, of Massachusetts, is presently principal insurance examiner, Department of Banking and Insurance of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
Syd Captain, of Florida, is presently involved with a local talk show on the aged and is a member of the Governor's Conference on Aging.
Charlotte W. Conable, of Washington, D.C., is presently Coordinator of Public Policy Projects, Women's Studies, George Washington University, and a member of the National Advisory Commmittee, 1981 White House Conference on Aging.
Katie G. Dusenberry, of Arizona, is presently a member, Board of Supervisors, Pima Comity, Ariz., and is president of the National Association of County Agency Programs. She is also president of the Affiliate on Aging Program, National Association of Counties.
Frances (Peg) Lamont of South Dakota, is a Republican State senator who has authored and passed legislation dealing with the aging. She has twice served on the White House Conference on Aging.
Josephine K. Oblinger, of Illinois, is a State Representative who has drafted legislation regarding issues pertaining to the aging in the areas of care and insurance.
Edna Bonn (Bonny) Russell, of California, is presently director, education and training, at San Jose State University. She is a past member of the California Committee on Aging and was chairman (during Governor Reagan's term.
  