
    
Small businesses are the engines of the American economy, driving innovation and creating the bulk of new jobs. Entrepreneurs and family business owners need to be free from overbearing government policy to grow and innovate. Only in a place like America can employees go to being employers, and it's a healthy culture of free enterprise and small business ownership that makes that possible.
Unfortunately, American small businesses, like the broader American economy, are struggling. In recent years, more businesses are being destroyed than created. Breaking out of economic stagnation requires reviving American small businesses and enabling them to do what they do best: create good-paying jobs and new opportunities for American workers. Marco plans to do that by restoring sanity to labor law, cutting taxes for small businesses, keeping regulations and costs low, and more.
In the Senate, Marco has received 100% ratings from the National Federation of Independent Business and the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Council. He has fought against ObamaCare, tax increases, and other policies that would harm small businesses and their workers.
As President, Marco will:
Enact Comprehensive Tax Reform that Protects Small Businesses
Marco supports comprehensive tax reform that will:

Cut taxes for small businesses to 25%;
Let businesses immediately expense new investments;
Permanently repeal the death tax.

Demand Full Repeal of ObamaCare and Its $1 Trillion of Tax Hikes

Repeal ObamaCare in full, including the $1 trillion of tax hikes on workers and employers, in particular the job-destroying employer mandate and obstacles to hiring full-time workers;
Support consumer-centered reforms that lower costs and provide flexibility to businesses. 

Read more about Marco's plan for health care here.
Fight for Accountable Regulatory Policies

Establish a National Regulatory Budget to hold unelected regulators accountable;
Let Congress vote up or down on regulations that have a major impact on the economy;
Expose the true costs of regulations on the American economy and small businesses;
Dramatically increase small business input in the regulatory process.

Pursue Policies that Lower Energy Costs, Fight Policies That Raise Them

Expand responsible production of American-made energy, including oil, coal, natural gas, and renewables;
Immediately approve construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline;
Fight cap-and-trade, a carbon tax, and new regulations from the Environmental Protection Agency that act as a national energy tax.

Establish a Common-Sense Balance Between Worker and Employer Rights

Protect the secret ballot for workers during union elections;
Prohibit unions from siphoning off worker dues for political activities; and
Remove union-imposed obstacles to workers receiving pay increases and bonuses.

  