
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

This Nation has been blessed with a rich variety of wildlife, including more than fifty kinds of hawks, falcons, eagles, vultures, and owls. Known as birds of prey, these species possess extraordinary beauty, strength, and power of flight. Inhabiting virtually every territory, often coexisting with man, they are a vital part of many natural systems and contribute significantly to the quality of the human environment.
From time immemorial, the history of mankind has been intertwined with birds of prey. The silent flight of the owl, the breathtaking swoop of the falcon across a mountain cliff, the effortless soaring of vultures over the plains, and the often spectacular passage of hawks on migration have captured the imagination of Americans. Since 1782, the Bald Eagle has served as the National Emblem of the United States.
As our country continues to grow and develop, we must remember our natural heritage and the need to provide future generations with opportunities to experience the excitement of a majestic eagle, a plummeting falcon, or the haunting call of an owl at night. The prosperity of this Nation rests upon both our material wealth and those values that enrich the quality of life. The preservation and propagation of our magnificent birds of prey will mean that these noble creatures will continue to awe and inspire generations of Americans yet unborn.
To emphasize the efforts of the many Americans who share appreciation for birds of prey and the need for their continued welfare, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 230 approved July 3, 1984, has designated the week of October 7 through October 13, 1984, as "National Birds of Prey Conservation Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation for this observance.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 7 through October 13, 1984, as National Birds of Prey Conservation Week. I encourage all Americans to observe this week by participating in appropriate ceremonies and activities planned by government agencies, individuals, and private associations and institutions throughout the country to promote the appreciation and conservation of birds of prey.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of October, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  