
    DES MOINES — Bennet for America today announced its Polk County steering committee, a group of community leaders who believe Michael Bennet is the best candidate to beat Donald Trump, and who will spearhead local efforts to share his vision for unifying the country and building a broad coalition to tackle our most pressing challenges. The committee will offer strategic guidance and lead outreach and organizing efforts through their networks as the campaign continues to grow its presence in the county.
Robert Bibens, Kimberly and Craig Shadur, and Mary and Jim Bernard, of Des Moines, Brandi Helms of Ankeny, and Tim Huckaby of Urbandale will form the steering committee. Bibens will serve as the Bennet for America Polk County Chair.
"Our path to victory runs right through Polk County, and these local leaders will further enable us to reach every corner of this community as Iowans begin to consider their choices," said Iowa State Director Brian Peters. "Michael's going to win this caucus the same way he won tough races in Colorado: by building a broad coalition of Iowans and people across the country who share his vision to build opportunity and fix our broken politics."
"I'm joining Team Bennet because I value the diversity of Michael's experience — from the private sector, to his career in public service with the City of Denver and in the United States Senate," said Polk County Chair Robert Bibens. "His efforts to develop meaningful relationships across the aisle, along with his deep understanding of our national security threats, serve as a genuine testament to the bipartisan leadership we need now more than ever."
Robert Bibens and his wife Hope live in Des Moines. For the past four years, Robert has worked with a nonprofit agency assisting young adults who are transitioning out of the child welfare system. Previously, Robert served with AmeriCorps programs in Little Rock, Washington, D.C., and Tulsa. Robert earned his Bachelor's Degree in Politics and Government from Drury University in Springfield, Missouri.
Bennet represents the State of Colorado in the Senate, but he has not spent a lifetime in politics. He turned around failing businesses in the private sector and improved outcomes for kids as superintendent of the Denver Public Schools. Bennet is the only candidate in this race who has won two national elections in a swing state. He has released comprehensive, field-leading proposals to provide high-quality, affordable health care with a public option, reward hard work, fix our broken political system, and tackle climate change by working with our farmers.
  