
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Sean O'Donnell of Maryland, to be the Inspector General of the Environmental Protection Agency.
Sean O'Donnell has served as a Federal civil servant for nearly 20 years, most recently as a trial attorney in the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice. Mr. O'Donnell has handled a wide range of criminal and civil matters, such as commercial and governmental fraud, corruption, and national security matters, working with more than a half dozen inspector general offices. He has received awards and honors at the Department of Justice, including the Attorney General's Award and the Executive Office for United States Attorneys Director's Award. Previously, Mr. O'Donnell clerked for United States Circuit Judge Raymond Gruender and United States District Judge Harry Lee Hudspeth. He has also worked for two law firms in private practice. Mr. O'Donnell earned a B.S. from Texas A&M University, B.A. from the University of Washington, and M.S. Econ. and J.D. from the University of Texas at Austin.
John "Jack" Bobbitt of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
John "Jack" Bobbitt serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Housing Operations at the Department of Housing and Urban Development, overseeing the procurement, human resources, facilities, communications, and information technology systems. Mr. Bobbitt has previously served in diverse executive roles in the private and public sectors responsible for operations, finance, sales, and marketing for many businesses, including large corporations and start-up ventures. Mr. Bobbitt has earned a BBA from the University of Texas at Austin. He currently lives in Washington, D.C.

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Laurie Todd-Smith of Mississippi, to be the Director of the Women's Bureau, Department of Labor. 
Laurie Todd-Smith is the former Executive Director of the State Workforce Investment Board and Senior Education Policy Advisor to Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant. Dr. Smith led numerous legislative efforts to help improve public education in Mississippi. She formerly served as the Executive Director of the State Early Childhood Advisory Council (SECAC) and has led the council in developing the Family Based Unified and Integrated State Plan. Dr. Smith helped to implement the Mississippi Works award winning technology, connecting job seekers with real-time employment opportunities. She is a former elementary classroom teacher, and was also an adjunct faculty member and a researcher at Mississippi State University. Dr. Smith has a Ph.D. from Mississippi State University, M.Ed. from Western New Mexico University, and B.A. from the University of Arizona.
The following individuals to be Members of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council:

Reynold Nelson Hoover of Connecticut
Rick Ledgett of Maryland
Kevin M. Morley of Virginia
Ola Sage of Maryland

The following individuals to be Members of the National Cancer Advisory Board:

Anna D. Barker of Arizona
Howard Fingert of Massachusetts
Andrea Hayes-Jordan of North Carolina 
Susan Vadaparampil of Florida

  