
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Bruce D. Jette of Virginia to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, Acquisition, Technology and Logistics. Dr. Jette most recently served as president and chief executive officer of Synovision Solutions LLC, an innovative company providing management and technical consulting, engineering services, and project management in support of military and governmental agencies including DARPA, the U.S. Army, and the Office of the Secretary of Defense as well as commercial industry, particularly the energy sector. Previously, Dr. Jette founded and served as director of the U.S. Army Rapid Equipping Force establishing the Army's rapid acquisition path. Dr. Jette also served as strategic science advisor to the Chief of Staff of the Army, senior research officer in the Army Research Laboratory, and brigade and battalion operations officer in numerous U.S. Army units in the U.S. and Germany. Among many service awards, Dr. Jette is the recipient of the Distinguished Service Medal, Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star Medal. He is a graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the United States Military Academy.
Lisa A. Johnson of Washington to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Namibia. Ms. Johnson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, has served as an American diplomat since 1992. She is currently Chargé d' Affaires at U.S. Embassy Nassau. As a senior official at the State Department, National Security Council, and Vice President's Office, Ms. Johnson demonstrated leadership of interagency teams, crisis management expertise, and a breadth of experience. She has served at six U.S. Missions overseas, including two in Africa. Ms. Johnson earned a M.S. from the National War College, a M.I.A. from Columbia University, and an A.B. from Stanford University. Her languages are French and Portuguese.
Andrew Wheeler of Virginia to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Wheeler is a principal and the head of the energy & environment team at Faegre Baker Daniels Consulting and co-chairs the energy and natural resources industry team within the law firm. Prior to joining Faegre Baker Daniels, Mr. Wheeler worked at the U.S. Senate Environment and Public Works Committee for fourteen years serving in various roles including as the majority and minority staff director and chief counsel. He started his career at the Environmental Protection Agency as a special assistant in the toxics office where he received three bronze medals. He has a B.A. from Case Western Reserve University, a J.D. from Washington University in St. Louis, and an M.B.A. from George Mason University. Mr. Wheeler is a member of the District of Columbia bar and an Eagle Scout.
-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Laura Rogers to the Department of Justice
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint Laura L. Rogers of Virginia to be the Director of the Office of Sex Offenders, Sentencing, Monitoring, Apprehending, Registering, and Tracking, Department of Justice. Ms. Rogers was a prosecutor for over ten years in the San Diego County District Attorney's Office, specializing in child homicide and sexual abuse. In 1999, she moved to the National Center for the Prosecution of Child Abuse, where she trained child abuse professionals on prosecuting child abuse cases. In 2006, President George W. Bush appointed Rogers as the first director of the DOJ's SMART office, where she implemented the Adam Walsh Child Protection and Safety Act. In 2009, she served as deputy director of the criminal law division of the Navy's Office of the Judge Advocate General, director of the Navy's Litigation Track and legal advisor of the Navy's Sexual Assault Prevention Training Program. She founded the National Institute for Training Child Abuse Professionals; served on the U.S. Conference of Catholic Bishops National Review Board, and is on the Philadelphia Archdiocese Review Board on sexual abuse and pastoral conduct.
  