
    Pool Reports by George Condon, National Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




October 12, 202209:50

In town pol report 1
President took a few questions before departing. Said Russian attacks on civilians "beyond the pale." Said he saw no movement fro. Putin on Brittany Gruber. Said dems can still win in Georgia Senate race.



October 12, 202210:16

In town pool report #2 Q&A
The president took a few questions from the pool before walking to Marine One for the trip to Joint Base Andrews.
He was asked his reaction to the Herschel Walker controversy and can the Democrats hold the seat. He responded, "Negative. And yes."
Told that some members of Congress have called for an end to U.S. arms sales to Saudi Arabia, he was asked if he supports that. "We're going to react to Saudi Arabia and we're doing consultation when they come back. We will take action."
Asked his reaction to Russian attacks on civilians in Ukraine, he responded, "Same as always, man. It's brutal. It's beyond the pale."
Asked if he has seen any movement on the case of Brittney Griner, he responded, "Not with Putin." As he was walking away it sounded like he was asked about his desire to codify Roe v Wade into law. It sounded like he repeated his position that he supports that. As always, check the official transcript because it was difficult to hear him.
He emerged from the White House at 9:38 a.m. and Marine One lifted off at 9:45.



October 12, 202210:13

In town pool report #3
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary




 
Pool Reports below by Tyler Pager, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




October 12, 202209:57 EDT

Travel Pool Report #1: Arrival at JBA
Good morning from JBA.
M1 landed at 9:53 a.m.
POTUS, wearing sunglasses and no tie, waved to the press and then boarded AF1.
We will be wheels up to Colorado shortly.
One logistical note: We are traveling on the smaller AF1 for the duration of this swing so pool reports may be delayed around take off and landing due to service limitations.
From the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:Colonel William McDonald
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Eagle County Regional Airport in Vail, Colorado:Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachJosh Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security AdvisorCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



October 12, 202211:56 MDT

Travel Pool Report #2: Arrival in Colorado
AF1 was wheels down at 11:37 am local time
POTUS exited AF1 at 11:46 and chatted with Colorado officials and Sec. Vilsack. POTUS and the officials broke out into laughter at one point but pool was stationed too far away to hear the conversation.
Sen. Hickenlooper told your pooler that the group was making "political jokes" though he did not share additional details.
Motorcade rolling to Camp Hale at 11:53
Greeting the President upon arrival at Eagle County Regional Airport:
Governor Jared Polis (CO)Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of AgricultureSenator Michael Bennet (CO)Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)Rep. Joe Neguse (CO-02)



October 12, 202213:28 MDT

Travel Pool Report #3: Camp Hale
The motorcade arrived at Camp Hale in Leadville, Colorado at 12:56 p.m. The pool
split away from the rest of the motorcade and drove about 5 minutes further down the road and arrived at a difference entrance.
We had an uneventful, but scenic ride from the airport here. The service is spotty here so apologies in advance for any delayed pool reports.
The event will be live-streamed. POTUS is expected to speak around 1:30 pm local time



October 12, 202214:05 MDT

Travel Pool Report #4: End of Camp Hale
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 1:57 pm.
He was then joined by the Colorado delegation, Secretary Vilsack, Chair Mallory, veterans and park service officials to sign the official declaration.
Pool was then quickly ushered out of the event and did not see POTUS leave.
Motorcade expected to be rolling shortly



October 12, 202216:00 MDT

Travel Pool Report #5: Departure from Colorado
The motorcade arrived at Eagle County Regional Airport at 3:58.
POTUS exited his SUV and boarded AF1 at 3:59 as press was exiting the vans.
Wheels up to Los Angeles shortly
Passing this along from the White House:
Participated in a photoline with the President:Governor Jared Polis (CO)Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of AgricultureSenator Michael Bennet (CO)Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)Rep. Joe Neguse (CO-2)Kim Langmaid, Mayor of Vail
The President delivered remarks on protecting and conserving America's iconic outdoor spaces and signed a proclamation establishing Camp Hale-Continental Divide National Monument. 
In attendance are environmental advocates, leaders of conservation organizations, veterans from World War II, members of Native American tribes, members of the Colorado congressional delegation, and local community leaders.
Speaking ProgramGovernor Jared Polis (CO)Secretary Tom Vilsack, U.S. Department of AgricultureRep. Joe Neguse (CO-2)Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)Senator Michael Bennet (CO)Scott Fitzwilliams, Forest Service RangerThe President



October 12, 202216:59 PDT

Travel Pool Report #6: LAX Arrival
AF1 was wheels down at LAX at 4:47.
POTUS walked down the stairs at 4:54 and greeted CA officials. He boarded M1 at 4:57 and is expected to be wheels up to Santa Monica shortly. Pool is headed to the ospreys.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Los Angeles International Airport:
Senator Alex Padilla (CA) and Angela Padilla, spouse of Senator PadillaRep. Karen Bass (CA-37)Mayor Eric Garcetti, Mayor of Los Angeles (CA)



October 12, 202217:16 PDT

Travel Report #7: Arrival in Santa Monica
M1 landed at Santa Monica Airport at 5:08 p.m. POTUS exited M1 at 5:13 and shook hands and posed for a photo with Mayor Sue Himmelrich of Santa Monica.
Pool was stationed too far away to shout questions.
POTUS entered the Beast at 5:15. Motorcade rolling to RON shortly.



October 12, 202217:32 PDT

Travel Pool Report #8: Lid
The motorcade arrived at the RON at 5:27 after a quick and uneventful motorcade — thanks to the 405 northbound lanes between the Santa Monica Freeway and Wilshire Blvd being shut down during Los Angeles rush hour. (h/t LAT's Eli Stokols)
Throngs of people gathered on the streets by UCLA's campus as the motorcade drove by.
Lid was called at 5:30




  