
    Pool Reports by Tim Balk, New York Daily News 



Sent:
Reports:




October 22, 202111:07

VP travel pool report #1
Good morning,
I am your pooler for the Vice President's visit to the North Bronx today.
It's a sunny day in New York City. Mostly clear skies. 66 degrees.
VP Harris, HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra, New York Gov. Kathy Hochul, Rep. Jamaal Bowman are expected at the Northeast Bronx YMCA.
A stage is set, backed by a blue-and-white "Build Black Better," banner in the new facility's basketball gymnasium. This Y branch opened last month. It's about 14 miles north of Midtown Manhattan.
Schedule:10:05AM: Wheels up at Joint Base Andrews en route Westchester County Airport, north of NYC12:20PM: HHS Sec. Becerra and VP speak at Northeast Bronx YMCA3:25PM: Wheels up at Westchester County Airport en route to Joint Base Andrews
Greeters for Harris at Westchester County Airport: Sec. Becerra, Rep. Mondaire Jones, Rep. Jamaal Bowman, Mayor Thomas Roach of White Plains City
Background from the White House: "Today Vice President Kamala Harris will travel to the Northeast Bronx YMCA in New York with HHS Secretary Xavier Becerra. During this visit with Rep. Jamaal Bowman (D-NY-16), the Vice President will speak directly to the American people and share how the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and the Build Back Better Agenda will benefit working families. The Vice President will learn about the YMCA facility's impact on the community and deliver remarks about building an economy that works for working families. She will highlight the importance of extending the Child Tax Credit, which is one of the largest-ever single tax cuts for families with children."
Please reach out with any questions.



October 22, 202111:57

VP travel pool report #2
About 100 people are assembled in the Northeast Bronx YMCA's gym.
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez has arrived, as has Lt. Gov Brian Benjamin of New York.
VP Harris has not appeared in the gym, nor has Gov. Kathy Hochul, as of 11:53 a.m.
Mayor Bill de Blasio arrived at 11:52 a.m. He is wearing a blue suit and a light blue tie.
VP is running on time, according to her office.



October 22, 202112:48

VP travel pool report #3
VP Harris arrived at a lobby of this YMCA branch at 12:09 p.m.
"I've worked with the Y for years, and I'm a member of the Y," VP Harris said.
She is wearing a gray suit and a black mask. She commented on the brand-new facility. "It's really beautiful," she said.
She told staff: "I used to swim at the Y a long time ago."
She greeted: Sharon Greenberger, President & CEO of the YMCA of Greater New York; Ayanna Penn, Northeast Bronx YMCA Healthy Lifestyles Coordinator; Shawn Taylor, Northeast Bronx YMCA Floor Staff; Verna Joy White, Northeast Bronx YMCA Front Desk Staff; Willy Valle, Northeast Bronx YMCA Aquatics Director.



October 22, 202112:50

VP travel pool report #4
New York Gov. Kathy Hochul spoke for about six minutes, wrapping up her remarks at 12:25 p.m.
"How cool is this that she could have been anywhere in the country, anywhere in New York, and she's right here in the Bronx?" Gov. Hochul said of VP Harris.
Gov. Hochul said she's "so proud" to have support of POTUS and VP.
"Piano Man" by Billy Joel played after Hochul's remarks.
Rep. Jamaal Bowman (D-N.Y) took the stage at 12:30 p.m. "We are going to deal with the climate crisis, and we are not going to leave people of color behind," Bowman said. He spoke for around 11 minutes, and then introduced HHS Sec. Becerra.
Outside, the building, across a street, about a dozen demonstrators were holding a banner that said, "Immigrants are Essential!"
They chanted: "What do want? Citizenship. When do want it? Now."



October 22, 202115:14

VP travel pool report #5
VP Harris took the stage at 12:48 p.m. Please check quotes against transcript.
"It's good to be in the Bronx, it really is, and with all of these esteemed New York electeds," VP said.
"It has been a lot, and people are tired," VP said of the pandemic.
"When I look out across this room — and across this country — I see determination," she said.
"We knew that during the pandemic the people who had the least were being harmed the most," VP said.
Harris said the U.S. is in a "moment of transformation."
"It's a moment when jobs are being created and our economy is growing," VP said.
A protester in a hoodie in the crowd interrupted the speech, yelling, at 12:56 p.m. It was tough to make out what he was saying, but he mentioned flooding. VP responded: "You are right" and said she would talk to him after. He was promptly ushered out of the gym.
On POTUS' agenda VP said: "We are fighting to give seniors and people with disabilities more options."
"We are fighting to pass our Build Back Better Agenda," she said. "...I'll tell you one thing for sure: We will not allow anyone who makes less than $400,000 a year have their taxes go up."
"The bottom line is that this is about what we value as a nation — about who we value," Harris said. "..The President and I value working families. The President and I both come from working families."
"The members of the United States Congress, right now in their hands — within reach — have an opportunity to lift up our families and our children," Harris said. "...So I'm here today to ask people to see this moment for what it is and to step up. We can do this. It is the right thing to do."
She finished her speech at 1:10 p.m.



October 22, 202115:16

VP travel pool report #6
VP met a press gaggle at 2:19 p.m. in the YMCA lobby.
She said the purpose of the trip was to "acknowledge the great work that is happening in communities, such as here at this YMCA, as an example of what is or can happen around our country."
Asked how close Democrats are to reaching an agreement on the reconciliation bill, VP said: "I think everybody will tell you that the closer you get to an agreement, the more things are actually peaked in terms of working out the details, and the tension that comes with that, and often the frustration that comes with that. For everybody. But it is also an indication of the fact that we are close to getting a deal. So, I am confident frankly — not only optimistic — but I am confident that we will reach a deal."
VP was asked if she plans to visit the southwestern border by year's end. She said: "I don't have any at this moment, no."
VP's motorcade left around 2:30 p.m. en route toWestchester County Airport.
That's all from your NYC travel pool reporter.




  