
    SANTA FE, NM-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today was endorsed by the Utah Democratic Hispanic Caucus, adding to his campaign's political organization in the state.
The Democratic Hispanic Caucus is the most recent in a long line of endorsements that Richardson has received in Utah; a complete list is below.
"I am honored to have the endorsement of the Utah Democratic Hispanic Caucus," Governor Richardson said. "I am proud to be the first Hispanic to run for the Democratic nomination. This endorsement will help me reach out to the Hispanic community in Utah and across the west. We are building a strong organization in Utah, and I am confident that I will win the state's primary."
Richardson also announced today that he officially is on the Utah ballot.
"Winning in the west is a central part of my strategy to win the nomination and the White House," Richardson said. "As a February 5th primary state, Utah will play an important role in determining who will be the next President. As a two-term western governor, I am the only Democratic candidate who has won in this increasingly crucial region of the country, and I know this experience will help me in the general election.
"The people of Utah know my record, and I share their values. They understand that I will end the war in Iraq and help make us energy independent. I also will protect our land and water and respect the rights of law-abiding gun owners. I am the right choice for the people of Utah and for America."
Here is a complete list of Governor Richardson's endorsers in Utah:
Rocky Anderson, Mayor, Salt Lake City, Steering Committee Co-Chair
Ralph Becker, Representative and Minority Leader, Utah State House
Nikki Boyer, Chair, Stonewall Caucus, Utah Democratic Party
Christian Burridge, Chairman, Salt Lake County Democratic Party
Rebecca Chavez-Houck, Hispanic Activist
Peter Corroon, Mayor, Salt Lake County, Steering Committee Co-Chair
Fred J. Fife, Senator, Utah State Senate
Joe Gallegos, Hispanic Activist
Paula Julander, Former Utah State Senator
Rod Julander, Former Utah State Senator
Scott McCoy, Senator, Utah State Senate
Rosalind "Roz" McGee, Representative, Utah State House
Ross Romero, Senator, Utah State Senate, Steering Committee Co-Chair
LaWanna Lou Shurtliff, Representative, Utah State House
Utah Hispanic Democratic Caucus
Josie Valdez, Minority Affairs Director, City of Salt Lake
Mark A. Wheatley, Representative, Utah State House
David Ybarra, Hispanic Activist
  