
    
  Leading Manufacturers Advocate agrees Santorum's Plan will put America back to work

Verona, PA - The Pennsylvania Manufacturers' Association (PMA) announced today that they have endorsed the Santorum jobs plan to put America back to work.
Manufacturing is currently the largest contributor to Pennsylvania's economy, generating over 13% of the Gross State Product and exporting almost $21 billion worth of goods each year. Nearly 575,000 Pennsylvanians are directly employed in the manufacturing sector.
"To improve America's competitive position in the world and re-start our economy, something as aggressive as Senator Santorum's manufacturing plan will be necessary. Manufacturing is the engine that drives our economy because it is the sector that adds the most value and has the strongest spin-off effect on job creation through far-reaching supply chains and distribution networks. Senator Santorum clearly understands this value manufacturing has on our overall economy, and his plan is consistent with his strong, unwavering record in support of pro-growth public policy throughout his career - for which we are grateful," said Frederick W. Anton III, President & CEO of the Pennsylvania Manufacturers' Association.
"Senator Santorum has a clear understanding of the hurdles facing American manufacturers today and what it will take to make America prosperous again. The Senator's bold vision for putting America back to work, combined with his strong pro-growth record, are why the Pennsylvania Manufacturers' Association is proud to stand behind the Santorum jobs plan to get our economy moving again," added David N Taylor, Executive Director of the Pennsylvania Manufacturers' Association.
Senator Santorum said, "I am thrilled that Pennsylvania's leading manufacturing advocates have endorsed our jobs plan that would put Americas back to work - immediately and permanently. Let's be honest, President Obama's economic policy would have to improve dramatically to even be considered incompetent. If there is any group that understands the federal tax and regulatory burdens that are stifling American innovation and economic growth, it is the manufacturers. The Obama Administration has created massive tax burdens on businesses and implemented crippling regulations that has created an environment where businesses are barely staying afloat. Change is needed immediately, and the change needs to come from the top.
As President, I will provide this nation with real leadership on successful economic policy and work to instill our nation with a renewed confidence in the American innovative spirit. To have PMA's endorsement of our plan to put America back to work is a great vote of confidence and motivation on the road to victory in November 2012."
Senator Santorum's jobs plan, which was released on July 5th in the Mississippi River manufacturing town of Burlington, IA, focuses on reinvigorating the "great middle of America" that has been lost over the past several decades - specifically the manufacturing sector. Among the many initiatives in the Santorum jobs plan are:


Cutting the corporate tax rate for domestic manufacturers from 35% to 0%;


Repatriating foreign income at a 5% tax rate rather than the current 35% to bring those revenues home to be investing in America;


Increasing the R&D Tax Credit from 14% to 20% and making it permanent;


Reducing the regulatory burden currently stifling American innovation, including complete repeals of ObamaCare, Sarbanes-Oxley, and Dodd-Frank; and,


Expanding domestic energy exploration to lower energy costs for manufacturers and create good paying manufacturing jobs.


For more information on the Santorum jobs plan: http://www.ricksantorum.com/news/2011/07/courage-fight-american-jobs
Founded in 1909 by Bucks County industrialist Joseph Grundy, the Pennsylvania Manufacturers' Association is a statewide trade organization advocating pro-growth public policy solutions in Harrisburg. For more information about PMA and its work, visit www.pamanufacturers.org.
  