
    President Tolbert and Mrs. Tolbert:
Mrs. Ford and all of our guests welcome you to the United States and to the White House on this occasion.
Your visit, Mr. President, is a particularly gratifying occasion because of our very special relationship with Liberia and the fact that this is the first African state visit of our third century of independence for the United States.
President Monroe presided in this very building at the time when blacks from this country created Liberia and named your capital city, Monrovia, after President Monroe. The founding of Liberia is a tribute to the conscience of mankind.
As President of Liberia, you have served not only as your country's leader but also have inspired millions throughout the world by your spiritual calling. As an ordained Baptist minister you were the first black elected President of the Baptist World Alliance. And we are proud that that election was held in the United States.
We meet at a time, on this occasion, when both the United States and Liberia are mindful of the very great problems in southern Africa. We agree on the urgent need for action, for peace and justice for all of the peoples of Africa.
The friendship linking our two countries is no accident, Mr. President. Our relations rest upon a basis, a foundation of shared values even to the shared red, white, and blue of our two respective flags. Our relationship is nurtured by the mutual respect that evolved over many, many years to meet many of our mutual challenges. Mr. President, we will face the challenges of today with the insights and with the determination developed through our past cooperation.
We share not only a special relationship but also a very special responsibility to others. Liberia and the United States are. after all, distinctive among nations. Ours are the oldest existing republics on our respective continents. Our constitutions, both written long, long ago, remain viable and living documents.
Mr. President, I know that you agree with me that freedom is too precious a gift for our nations to reserve only for ourselves. We must stand ready to encourage others, all those who strive for freedom, reconciliation, and the rights of all men, whether they are on the African Continent or otherwise.
We are deeply grateful for Liberia's courage and wisdom, and I especially appreciate your very wise and personal counsel. Liberia can count on the United States to assist and support the Liberian people, just as the United States has always been able to rely on the Liberian people.
Mr. President, when your grandparents emigrated from the United States to Liberia just a few years ago, we lost two valuable American citizens, but Liberia gained a great President.
Now, may I ask all of you to join me in a tribute to the President of Liberia and Mrs. Tolbert, a heartfelt welcome to Washington, and to Liberia and to the United States of America. May they ever be firm and very fast friends inspired by a common vision of liberty.
  