
    Every day of my presidency, we will fight for a cleaner environment and a better quality of life for every one of our great citizens. --President Donald J. Trump
PROTECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT: President Donald J. Trump has made it a top priority to promote a clean and healthy environment for the American people.

President Trump's policies are promoting economic growth, while still maintaining standards that allow Americans to have among the cleanest air and water in the world.
While America has become the world's number one producer of oil and natural gas, our Nation has continued to successfully cut greenhouse gas emissions and improve air quality.
The President has also balanced oil and gas production with the interests of residents of the Southeast, withdrawing certain offshore waters from development for 10 years.
President Trump negotiated the historic USMCA, which contains the strongest environmental protections of any trade agreement in history.
The President signed the Save Our Seas Act to protect our environment from foreign nations that litter our oceans with garbage.

CONSERVING AMERICA'S LANDS: President Trump is ensuring that Americans can enjoy our Nation's magnificent lands for generations to come.

President Trump recently signed the Great American Outdoors Act, securing the single largest investment in America's National Parks and public lands in history.
Last year, the President signed the largest public lands legislation in a decade, designating 1.3 million new acres of wilderness.
President Trump has taken action to help prevent catastrophic forest fires by promoting active forest management under Federal supervision and with enhanced State and local partnerships.
The Department of the Interior has already expanded or opened nearly 4 million more acres across the country for hunting and fishing access.
The President announced that the United States would join the One Trillion Trees Initiative to plant, conserve, and restore trees in America and around the world.

CLEANING AND PROTECTING COMMUNITIES: The President is protecting public health in America's communities by prioritizing the cleanup of polluted areas and improving infrastructure. 

Under President Trump, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is emphasizing cleaning up communities more than Americans have seen in over a decade.

In 2019, the EPA deleted the most Superfund hazardous waste sites from the National Priorities List since 2001.


For the first time in nearly 30 years, the EPA is in the process of strengthening national standards to protect vulnerable children from exposure to lead in drinking water.
To further improve water quality for Americans, the Trump Administration has invested over $38 billion in clean water infrastructure.
President Trump has delivered infrastructure upgrades and investments for numerous projects, including directing over half a billion dollars for the Herbert Hoover Dike rehabilitation and prioritizing Everglades restoration.

This important infrastructure will help protect and restore the ecosystems in the Everglades, defend millions of Floridians from catastrophic flooding, and help improve water quality.



  