
    
President Donald Trump's visit to Doral today is a good opportunity to contrast his achievements for Hispanic Americans with Joe Biden's record of betraying our communities.
While President Trump has delivered record-breaking prosperity for Hispanic Americans and strongly proclaimed that America will never be a socialist or communist country, Joe Biden has proven himself to be a puppet of the Castrochavistas who control the Democrat Party. 

Biden has pledged to be "one of the most progressive presidents in American history." Hispanics know exactly what "progresista" means—and we do not want that garbage ideology in America.
Biden refuses to say whether he will do in America the same thing that Nicolás Maduro did in Venezuela and pack the Supreme Court with leftist justices. 
As a Senator, Biden voted five times to undermine the brave freedom fighters who were working to defeat Nicaraguan dictator Daniel Ortega and the Castro-backed Sandinista movement. 
In 1996, Joe Biden voted to eliminate Section 936 for Puerto Rico, which stripped it of its pharmaceutical industry, sent thousands of Puerto Rican jobs to China, and shattered the island's economy. Meanwhile, President Trump is making historic investments in La Isla Del Encanto.
When Joe Biden met with Nicolás Maduro in 2015, he complimented the brutal Venezuelan dictator on his hair.
Biden has been endorsed by Colombian socialist Gustavo Petro, a former M-19 guerrilla member. 
Biden has pledged to return to the failed policy of showering Cuba's communist dictatorship with unilateral concessions. President Trump stands with the people of Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela.
Biden could have stood up to socialism by pledging to excise the Neo-Marxist wing of his party. Instead, Biden released a Unity Platform with socialist Sen. Bernie Sanders who infamously praised Fidel Castro's indoctrination programs and claims on his Senate website that Venezuela is emblematic of the American Dream.
Biden named socialist Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez as co-chair of his campaign's climate task force. When President Trump led an international coalition to stop Venezuelan dictator Nicolás Maduro's murderous regime, Rep. Ocasio-Cortez refused to denounce the Venezuelan dictatorship.
Biden insulted millions of Hispanics when he considered Castro-loving communist Rep. Karen Bass as his running mate. Not even the fact that Bass was a leader of the Venceremos Brigade, a radical Marxist group conceptualized by Cuba's intelligence agency, kept her off of Biden's VP shortlist.

Let's be clear: Biden's appeasement Castrochavistas like Sanders, Ocasio-Cortez, and Bass is an insult to millions of Hispanics and it should disqualify him from the presidency. The only reason why Biden gets a pass is because our contemporary Walter Durantys in the Fake News Media use their platforms to normalize socialism and hide the Democrat Party's extremism from the American people.
It is a sham that is no longer working. Hispanics know better, which is why Joe Biden and his culturally incompetent campaign are struggling with our communities while President Trump grows his diverse coalition. We do not want Castrochavismo in our country.
  