
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Katherine Baicker, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Dr. Baicker is an Associate Professor in the Department of Public Policy at the University of California in Los Angeles. Additionally, she serves as a Faculty Research Fellow for the National Bureau of Economic Research. She previously served as an Associate Professor in the Department of Economics at Dartmouth College and as a Senior Research Associate for the Center for the Evaluative Clinical Sciences at Dartmouth College Medical School. Earlier in her career, Dr. Baicker served as Senior Economist for the Council of Economic Advisers. She received her bachelor's degree from Yale University and her PhD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Matthew Slaughter, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers. Dr. Slaughter is an Associate Professor of Business Administration for the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth College. In addition, he serves as a Research Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and as a Visiting Fellow at the Institute for International Economics. Prior to this, Mr. Slaughter was a Visiting Scholar at the Federal Reserve Board and the International Monetary Fund and served as a Term Member at the Council on Foreign Relations. Earlier in his career, he served as a Consultant at the World Bank and the Department of Labor. Dr. Slaughter received his bachelor's degree from the University of Notre Dame and his PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Benson K. Whitney, of Minnesota, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Norway. Mr. Whitney currently serves as President of Argus Management, LTD. In addition, he serves as Chief Executive Officer for Whitney Management Company. Earlier in his career, he was Managing General Partner for Gideon Hixon Fund and served as President of Minnesota Venture Capital Association. He received his bachelor's degree from Vassar College and his JD from the University of Minnesota.
  