
    Pool Reports by Michael D. Shear, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 1, 202309:51

In-Town Pool Report #1
Good morning. I will be your pooler on this (rare) beautiful Washington summer day.
The only thing on the schedule so far is the POTUS jobs-day remarks in the Rose Garden, scheduled for 11:15 a.m. That event is open press, but I will endeavor to give a two-minute warning when we get one.
Enjoy the weather.



September 1, 202311:30

In-town pool report #2
There has clearly been a delay in the POTUS remarks. The pool (and others) are gathered at the Palm Room doors. Will provide an update when I have one.



September 1, 202312:06

In-town pool #3
The pool and other reporters have been taken into the Rose Garden. We are awaiting event.



September 1, 202312:14

In town pool report #4 - 2 minute warning
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



September 1, 202312:17

In town pool report #5
POTUS remarks started at 12:14 pm.



September 1, 2023
[APP Note: Report #6 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


September 1, 202313:38

In Town Pool Report # 7 -- Lid
And we have an early lid for today. Enjoy the early beginning of the Labor Day weekend everyone.



September 1, 202322:23

In town pool report #8 — week ahead.
From the White House:
On Saturday, the President and the First Lady will travel to Live Oak, Florida.
Later, the President and the First Lady will depart Live Oak, Florida en route to Rehoboth Beach, Delaware where they will stay the remainder of the weekend.
On Monday, the President will travel to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania to celebrate Labor Day.
After, the President will depart Philadelphia, Pennsylvania en route to Wilmington, Delaware.
Later, the President will depart Wilmington, Delaware and return to the White House.
On Tuesday, the President will award the Medal of Honor to Captain Larry L. Taylor, United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry. The First Lady will attend.
On Thursday, the President will travel to New Delhi, India to attend the G20 Leaders' Summit.
On Friday, the President will participate in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India.
On Saturday and Sunday the President will participate in the G20 summit, where the President and G20 partners will discuss a range of joint efforts to tackle global issues, including on the clean energy transition and combatting climate change, mitigating the economic and social impacts of Putin's war in Ukraine, and increasing the capacity of multilateral development banks, including the World Bank, to better fight poverty, including by addressing global challenges. While in New Delhi, the President will also commend Prime Minister Modi's leadership of the G20 and reaffirm the U.S. commitment to the G20 as the premier forum of economic cooperation, including by hosting it in 2026.
On Sunday, the President will travel to Hanoi, Vietnam. While in Hanoi, the President will meet with General Secretary Nguyen Phu Trong and other key leaders to discuss ways to further deepen cooperation between the United States and Vietnam. The leaders will explore opportunities to promote the growth of a technology-focused and innovation-driven Vietnamese economy, expand our people-to-people ties through education exchanges and workforce development programs, combat climate change, and increase peace, prosperity, and stability in the region.




  