
    The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Congresswoman Diane Watson of Los Angeles. She will advise the campaign on a range of issues related to her important work on the House Foreign Affairs and Oversight and Government Reform committees.
"These challenging times call for a leader with Hillary's strength and experience," said Congresswoman Watson. "Her 35-year record fighting for children and families makes her uniquely qualified to hit the ground running on her first day in the White House."
Watson was elected to Congress in 2001, after a distinguished career as a California state legislator, where she became a statewide and national advocate for health care, consumer protection, women, and children.
Prior to serving in Congress, Watson served as U.S. Ambassador to Micronesia, and before that spent 20 years in the California State Senate, where she was a longtime chair of the Health and Human Services Committee. Among other legislation, Watson authored the California Birth Defects Monitoring Program Act, which led to pioneering research into the causes of birth defects, and the Residential Care Facilities Act, to ensure that senior citizens receive quality care in nursing and assisted living homes. She was also instrumental in helping pass California's anti-smoking laws.
Watson began her career as a school teacher and psychologist, and was the first African American woman to be elected to the Los Angeles Unified School Board in 1975.
Watson is currently a member of the House Foreign Affairs Committee and serves on the Subcommittee on Africa and Global Health and the Subcommittee on Asia, the Pacific, and Environment. She is also a member of the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee and its Subcommittee on Domestic Policy. She is also a Democratic Regional Whip for Southern California.
"I admire Diane's tireless commitment to improving the lives of children by expanding health care and educational opportunities," Clinton said. "I'm delighted she'll help lead our efforts in California."
  