
    Today, Romney for President announced its National Educators for Romney coalition. This group of education leaders from across the country will lead an effort to coordinate support for Mitt Romney and his bold education reforms that will put students first.
"Education is the key to success in the modern world, and making sure that every American child has a good education is the civil rights issue of our time," said Mitt Romney. "I am lucky to have these great leaders in education on my team. Together, we will reform our education system to ensure that the chance of a child's success is not dictated by the circumstances of his or her birth."
"I've worked with Republicans and Democrats to bring quality education to all of our children, and I can say with authority that Mitt Romney understands the reforms this country needs," said former Secretary of Education Rod Paige. "For too long, we've watched as our most disadvantaged children have been denied the one tool they need to rise from poverty and live a successful life—a world-class education. Mitt Romney has proposed real reforms that will finally bring the change we need and that our children deserve. In Chicago, we are seeing again that entrenched special interests will oppose those efforts, but Governor Romney is a leader who can overcome that opposition. I am proud to support him in this endeavor."
National Chair
Rod Paige, Former United States Secretary of Education
Honorary National Co-Chairs
Kristi LaCroix, Teacher, Lakeview Technology Academy — Kenosha, Wisconsin
John Giotis, Headmaster, The School of the Immaculata — St. Petersburg, Florida
Joan Moorhead, Teacher, Williams Intermediate School — Davenport, Iowa
John Lyons, former Chairman, New Hampshire State Board of Education
Eileen Weiser, Michigan State Board of Education
Debe Terhar, President, Ohio State Board of Education
Pam Benigno, Director, Independence Institute — Education Policy Center, Colorado
Mike Lair, Missouri State Representative
Scott Hammond, Nevada State Assemblyman
Jerry Tillman, North Carolina State Senator
Bernie O'Neill, Pennsylvania State Representative
Harry Blevins, Virginia State Senator
Kirk Cox, Virginia State Delegate
Lee Ware, Virginia State Delegate
*Institution names are provided for identification purposes only.
  