
    Debate 3 Reviews Are In: Kamala Harris Had A Stellar Debate and Is Ready to Take on Donald Trump
"Strongest debater" "Powerful message" "Laser-focused on Trump" "Tough but clear-eyed" "Got the spark"
In the third Democratic Presidential Debate, Senator Kamala Harris took the fight directly to Donald Trump, proving that she is best equipped to unify the country and take back the White House in 2020.
Reporters, pundits, activists, and elected officials agree that Kamala Harris owned the stage and delivered an incredibly strong debate performance. Read some of the early reviews below:

Ruben Gallego, U.S. Representative: "@KamalaHarris has been the strongest debater, has been having fun and is clearly the happy warrior on stage."


Atima Omara, Virginia DNC Member: "Kamala Harris on the question of resilence: speaking personally to the experience of black women who've lived their lives trying to achieve, like running for office, when the world tells you no, all the time is real"


Ana Navarro-Cárdenas, CNN: "@KamalaHarris speaking truth re El Paso shooting: 'Certainly, Trump didn't pull the trigger. But he tweeted out the ammunition.' Preach girl. Preach!"


David Catanese, McClatchy: "Harris has had a good first hour. She's warm, not defensive. She's hugging her rivals on stage, keeping trained on the issue and always Trump. She's not looking to fight. She's looking to be seen as a bridge candidate while the rest of them fight."


Aisha C Moodie-Mills: "I really appreciate Kamala's story telling tonight. She's getting better at really humanizing the issues. Seems she's working to flex her tough and soft sides."


Fred Guttenberg, gun control activist: "Love @SenKamalaHarris line about Trump 'he is tweeting out the ammunition.'"


Michael Cohen, Boston Globe: "Harris is really strong on why she became a prosecutor. Tonight it came after a brutal question, but she has a powerful message on trying to change the system from the inside"


Joan Walsh, CNN: "I'm neutral, but I have never loved @KamalaHarris more than right now, @BillOReilly. What are you doing with yourself right now, lil buddy?"


Topher Spiro, Center for American Progress: "Kamala Harris won the opening statement and the health care debate. Just sayin"


Joe Scarborough, MSNBC: "Kamala just gave one of the better answers of the campaign season. Stop talking only about differences between Democrats and start talking about Donald Trump."


Charlotte Clymer, Human Rights Campaign: "Kamala Harris was fantastic in that answer on health care. Really well done."


Ana Navarro-Cárdenas, CNN: "Oooh. I love @KamalaHarris giving Trump shade."


Doug Sovern, KCBS: "@KamalaHarris stands out in #DemDebate opening statements by addressing @realDonaldTrump directly, looking at camera & saying 'we all know he's watching.' After railing against him, she says 'And now Mr. President, you can go back to watching Fox News.' Roar of approval here."


Michael Barbaro, New York Times: "Harris wins the opening statement battle."


Randi Weingarten, American Federation of Teachers: "Thank you @KamalaHarris for highlighting the importance of diverse teachers for diverse children."


Sarah Silverman, entertainer: "Whoa @KamalaHarris saved her three pointers for the fourth quarter"


Mo Elleithee, former DNC communications director: "Kamala Harris' climate change answer was powerful. Did a good job of speaking to values, and connected how her record helped real people."


Molly Hensley-Clancy, BuzzFeed: "Fwiw, the corny jokes are basically all landing at this bar in suburban Michigan where I am watching with the Democratic club. People looooved the Kamala Wizard of Oz bit"


Raul Castro, CNN: "At this early stage, Democratic voters are trying to decide who can best take on Trump. Harris seems eager to make the case that she can, by bringing him into the debate as much as she can. Instead of fighting against her fellow candidates, tonight she has her eyes on the prize."


John Avlon, CNN: "Kamala tough but clear eyed on China."


Robert Garcia, Mayor of Long Beach, CA: "Glad Kamala Harris pushed strong on her experience as a prosecutor and as Attorney General. She was our first Black AG and pushed more and accomplished more than anyone in the office before. Proud of her and her criminal justice reform plans. Great answer, Kamala."


Penny Rosjford, Iowa Democratic Party State Central Committee member - "Thankful that Kamala reminded us who is really trying to take away our health care. When Donald Trump spent his first year trying to leave millions uninsured, he ignited women across this country to take charge fighting for our families. We have to continue to remind people who we are fighting, and she did just that."


Sue Dvorsky, former Iowa Democratic Party Chair, former school teacher, and National Education Association activist - "Tonight the whole country can see what we've seen in Iowa already. Kamala Harris is whip smart, thoughtful and ready on Day One. #ForThePeople"


Kyrstin Delagardelle, Des Moines School Board Member and teacher librarian - "Senator Harris understands the commitment teachers make to their students and communities and wants to value that with her plan to increase teacher pay. HBCU's teacher education programs need unprecedented investment to grow teachers of color across the country. All of our students deserve the best teachers and Sen. Harris's plans would support growing enrollment among teachers of color to promote more teachers who look like their students in the short term and provide something to build on for generations to come."


Jean Hessburg, Iowa Democratic Party Women's Caucus Chair - "We can change our behaviors" Kamala again proves this isn't esoteric discussion- it's plain; there's a plan; yes we can @KamalaHarris #DemocraticDebate #IACaucus #ForThePeople


Faith Leader DJ Jackson- "'Yes We Can' @KamalaHarris is positioning herself as the clear heir to Obama's legacy."


Amy Hayes, Former York County Democratic Party Chairwoman-"Kamala was the first in the field to talk about using the federal government to raise teacher pay Anyone can have a plan...This is clearly a priority for her. Do you hear the passion?"


Antjuan Seawright, South Carolina Democratic consultant- "Smart for @KamalaHarris to go after the other side immediately!"


State Rep. Patty Cornell, Vice Chair of the Manchester Democrats-"Kamala's joy was infectious tonight as she proved once again that she is the very best candidate to beat Donald Trump. I was so pleased to see her highlight her solutions to problems facing Americans. Her emphasis on uniting the country -- not dividing -- is crucial and how she will get things done as president. I'm proud to have endorsed her, and I'm so happy she never listened to those who said she shouldn't run for various offices throughout her career because she is the absolute right candidate for this moment."


New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair Joe Keefe-"Tonight, Kamala taught a master class in how take on Trump. She made clear that she is focused on bringing the country together and unifying Americans around solutions to our common challenges -- like putting food on the table, combatting gun violence, and ensuring everyone has access to quality healthcare. Kamala is going to unite the country and make a great president in the process."


The Honorable Jackie K. Weatherspoon, Co-Chair of the New Hampshire Democratic Party African Amercan Caucus-"Kamala has pursued justice her entire career, and that laser focused was on display tonight. Kamala's plans will unite, not divide, and she will govern with clear-eyed leadership. Her performance in the debate tonight was just another instance where her passionate, committed leadership was on full display. I can't wait for her to be president."


@OliviaStitilis: "Overheard in Boulder City, "I'm a lifelong Republican, but I'm now supporting @KamalaHarris and I want my granddaughter to have a strong female role model like her." #ForThePeople"


@JenniferLopezNV: "@KamalaHarris grew up acutely aware of the flaws in the criminal justice system. She made a conscious decision to become a prosecutor to make change from within the system. We need a president like Kamala Harris, who has a plan to fix the system. #ForThePeople #DemDebate #KHive"

  