
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that veteran actor and director Robert Duvall, along with his wife Luciana, are supporting Mayor Rudy Giuliani for President of the United States.
The Duvalls will also host a fundraiser for the Mayor at their Virginia home later this month.
"Rudy has consistently proven he's ready to confront tough challenges," said Duvall. "I don't normally get involved in politics, but I think the stakes are too high this election. Mayor Giuliani has the executive experience, proven record and bold vision needed to lead our country. Luciana and I are proud to support him."
"As a fan and an admirer of Mr. Duvall's work for some time, I am honored to have Robert and his wife Luciana's support and help on our campaign," said Mayor Giuliani. "Their willingness to not only offer their support, but to open their home is a tremendous contribution. I am excited to have the Duvalls on our team."
About Robert Duvall:
Robert Duvall is an accomplished director and Academy Award-winning actor, having made his motion picture debut playing Boo Radley in To Kill a Mockingbird. He starred in Francis Ford Coppola's The Rain People and received the first of his six Academy Award nominations for his role in The Godfather. He followed those with roles in The Godfather: Part II and Apocalypse Now.
Duvall was nominated for an Oscar in The Great Santini and The Apostle. He won the Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Tender Mercies and received an Emmy nomination for playing Texas Ranger Gus McCrae in the Lonesome Dove miniseries. In June 2006, Duvall executive produced and starred in Broken Trail, a miniseries for AMC. Broken Trail has garnered Golden Globe nominations and is currently nominated for 16 Emmy awards. Duvall's directing portfolio includes Assassination Tango, Angelo My Love, and the documentary We're Not the Jet Set. Duvall's next movie, We Own the Night, premieres in October. Duvall is a native of San Diego, California. He majored in drama at Principia College in Elsah, Illinois, and served in the U.S. Army upon graduation.
  