
    If the righteous many do not confront the wicked few, then evil will triumph. --President Donald J. Trump
LEADING COUNTERPROLIFERATION EFFORTS: President Donald J. Trump is committed to countering the proliferation of chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons. 

Today, President Trump is urging members of the United Nations Security Council to work together to counter the proliferation of chemical, biological, and nuclear weapons.
Nations of the world have long recognized the danger of such weapons and the international community has a vital interest in preventing their further development, spread, and use.
Under President Trump's leadership, the United States and its allies have taken bold action to confront the worldwide threat to international peace and security posed by these weapons.

HOLDING SYRIA ACCOUNTABLE: President Trump has taken strong action to hold the Syrian regime to account for its use of chemical weapons.

The President is committed to countering the Syrian regime's barbaric use of chemical weapons, as well as those who support or enable their use.
Under President Trump, the United States and allies have taken military action to hold Syria accountable for carrying out horrendous chemical weapons attacks against its own civilians.

Earlier this year, the United States, France, and the United Kingdom launched precision strikes on targets associated with Syria's chemical weapons capabilities.
In April 2017, President Trump directed strikes against a Syrian airfield used in a chemical weapons attack on innocent civilians.


President Trump calls on the international community to work together to uphold the prohibition against chemical warfare.

STANDING UP TO IRAN: The Trump Administration is taking action to counter Iran's malign activity and ensure that the rogue regime never gains a nuclear weapon.

The Iranian regime advances violence, bloodshed, and chaos across the region and the world.

Iran has spent billions of dollars to fuel conflicts in Syria, Iraq, and Yemen.
Iran is the world's leading state sponsor of terrorism, funding terrorist proxies like Hamas and Hezbollah.


President Trump has withdrawn from the Iran Deal and begun reimposing nuclear-related sanctions to help ensure this regime is permanently denied all paths to a nuclear weapon.

All nuclear-related sanctions will be in full force in early November.


The President is urging international partners to work with the United States to ensure that the Iranian regime changes its behavior and never acquires a nuclear bomb.

WORKING TO DENUCLEARIZE NORTH KOREA: President Trump's policies have seen historic progress on North Korea, which has agreed to work toward complete denuclearization.

President Trump and Kim Jong Un held a historic summit in Singapore, where Chairman Kim reaffirmed his agreement to complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula.
Significant progress has been made and President Trump is confident that North Korea will honor its agreement to complete denuclearization, but sanctions will remain until that occurs.
North Korea has not conducted a nuclear test in over a year or a missile test in 10 months.
Some Nations have violated the United Nations sanctions obligations. The safety of the world depends on compliance with Security Council resolutions and violators must stop.

  