
    David Longly Bernhardt, of Colorado, to be Solicitor of the Department of the Interior, vice Sue Ellen Wooldridge.
Mary Amelia Bomar, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the National Park Service, vice Frances P. Mainella, resigned.
Terrence W. Boyle, of North Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice J. Dickson Phillips, Jr., retired.
Larry W. Brown, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2010, vice R. Bruce Matthews, resigned.
Peter E. Cianchette, of Maine, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2010, vice Nancy Killefer, term expired.
Charles F. Conner, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice James R. Moseley. John Ray Correll, of Indiana, to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, vice Jeffrey D. Jarrett.
Charles L. Glazer, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of El Salvador.
William James Haynes II, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice H. Emory Widener, Jr., retiring.
Tracy A. Henke, of Missouri, to be Executive Director of the Office of State and Local Government Coordination and Preparedness, Department of Homeland Security, vice C. Suzanne Mencer, resigned.
Robert T. Howard, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Information and Technology), vice Robert N. McFarland.
Collister Johnson, Jr., of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation for a term of seven years, vice Albert S. Jacquez, term expired.
John Edward Mansfield, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2011. (Reappointment)
William W. Mercer, of Montana, to be Associate Attorney General, vice Robert D. McCallum, Jr.
Mark Myers, of Alaska, to be Director of the United States Geological Survey, vice Charles G. Groat, resigned.
William Gerry Myers III, of Idaho, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Thomas G. Nelson, retired.
James F. X. O'Gara, of Pennsylvania, to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, vice Barry D. Crane.
Halil Suleyman Ozerden, of Mississippi, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Mississippi, vice David C. Bramlette, retired.
Norman Randy Smith, of Idaho, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Stephen S. Trott, retired.
Richard Stickler, of West Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health, vice David D. Lauriski, resigned.
Sara Alicia Tucker, of California, to be Under Secretary of Education, vice Edward R. McPherson, resigned.
Michael Brunson Wallace, of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Charles W. Pickering, Sr., retired.
William Ludwig Wehrum, Jr., of Tennessee, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Jeffrey R. Holmstead, resigned.
Peter Stanley Winokur, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for a term expiring October 18, 2009, vice John T. Conway, term expired.
Otis D. Wright, II, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Gary L. Taylor, retired.
George H. Wu, of California, to be United States District Judge for the Central District of California, vice Ronald S. W. Lew, retiring.
  