
    As unrest spreads throughout American cities, President Trump has offered real solutions while Joe Biden coddles the organizations promoting violence. President Trump has spent his time in office uplifting the Black community through school choice, criminal justice reform, and economic empowerment, but Joe Biden and other radical Democrats have attempted to undermine his administration at every turn. Texas State Representative James White, Jack Brewer, Black Voices for Trump Advisory Board member, and Corrin Rankin, Black Voices for Trump Advisory Board member, discussed all this and more on tonight's 'Black Voices for Trump: Real Talk Online!' broadcast hosted by Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are attempting to pander to Black voters, but they cannot erase decades of policies designed to undermine the Black community," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "Only President Trump has consistently supported the Black family and worked to increase Black generational wealth."
"At the Republican National Convention, we heard directly from Black Americans who have benefited from the Trump Administration's Make America Great Again agenda and reject the false promises of the left," said Texas State Representative James White. "As Joe Biden surrenders to the left-wing mob, President Trump is working to restore law and order to our cities."
"Joe Biden has no plan to address the underlying issues of the Black community, which are largely linked to fatherless homes, failing schools, and mass incarceration," said Jack Brewer, Black Voices for Trump Advisory Board Member. "We need another four years of President Trump to undo decades of failed Democrat policies designed to hurt Black Americans."
"While Democrats continue to offer Black voters false promises and fear-mongering, President Trump is working to deliver real solutions to the Black community," said Corrin Rankin, Black Voices for Trump Advisory Board Member. "We need a president who will work to remedy the underlying problems that Black voters face, not one who stokes fear and division."
  