
    Pool Reports by Francesca Chambers, McClatchy



Sent:
Reports:




 September 17, 2020 10:08

 In town pool report #1: Meadows gaggle/Airline officials 
Good morning, everyone,A busy morning here at the White House.A few updates for you ...At call time the White House Covid tested members of the in and out of town pools.While some of the in-town pool was being tested, airline officials spoke at the stix after concluding a meeting with White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows.At the same time, the WH's Peter Navarro was appearing on television. While he may have spoken to a reporter or two after, much of the press on site was tuned into the airline officials or Meadows, who was gaggling with a separate group of reporters inside the briefing room that overlapped with airline officials.Pooler caught most of the gaggle with Meadows that exceeded 20 minutes and will send highlights shortly. The main topic was the stimulus negotiations and coronavirus although a few other topics, including Hurricane Sally came up. 


 September 17, 2020 10:47

 In town pool report #2 Meadows gaggle quotes 1/2 
Meadows highlights from the off-camera gaggle:When the print pooler joined the gaggle in progress, the COS was telling reporters that it is "incumbent" that House Speaker Pelosi act to keep airline workers from being laid off.Any sense that the WH could act unilaterally: He said the White House has looked at a "number of options" for executive actions. "All of them are less than ideal.""There's a few things that we could do but I don't know that it actually solves the problem of curtailing furloughed workers."Has he brought up a standalone airlines package to Dems; Said he had in private conversations with a few House Dems, but the WH was "hopeful" that the $1.5 trillion proposal from the bipartisan Problem Solvers would get everyone back to the table."Based on conversations with some Democrat House members yesterday, I'm not optimistic Speaker Pelosi is going to see this as an opportunity to actually have meaningful conversations."What is the dollar figure required for just the airlines alone: $25 billion."Compared to $1.5 trillion, it's a rather small amount of additional assistance that could potentially keep 30 to 50,000 workers on the payroll."That amount would be to keep them operating without layoffs for the next six months, he said.Long term impact? "I think they see this as the recovery is going to take a little bit longer, because coivd has not abated in a way that allows them to return to a normal operating schedule. They've adjusted their ability to hopefully get to profitability quicker ... but there still is real assistance that needs to be granted."Tik Tok? Said they are still looking at the potential details of the deal. He said that if it is just repackaged and kept as a predominately chinese government run country it would not set well with the goals of the president.Hurricane Sally: "He has spoken to some of the governors. I know I've reached out to a few of the governors, as well, we approved their emergency declaration for Florida, as well as the other emergency declarations in record time. By that, within less than an hour."He declined to say which governors that POTUS had spoken to personally."At this point, we've contacted every state that's affected to make sure that we stand ready to help them."What are you hearing from them? "What I've heard is, is that our response from an emergency declaration standpoint and FEMA's response has been extremely rapid and helpful."Does the president have plans to visit the Panhandle this weekend?"There are no plans to do that right now. We try not to get in the way. Even when we went to Louisiana and Texas part of our schedule was to make sure that since we have a larger footprint, when we come in that we don't get in the way of any rescue or mitigation efforts that might be happening on the ground. We don't have any plans for that."Stimulus: He said that Pelosi doesn't seem to have a willingness to have any other discussions than her $2.2."That's not a negotiation, that's an ultimatum."He said there are no planned discussions with Pelosi or Schumer today. 


 September 17, 2020 11:08

 In town pool report #3: Meadows gaggle quotes 2/2 
Highlights from the back half of the Meadows gaggle.Back on the airlines, he said that if something separate/standalone is going to happen, it's going to have to happen next week, in order to get it to POTUS by Oct. 1. "Without speaking directly for the president, I think it would be well received by the administration."Enhanced unemployment benefits:He said those WH benefits, the money has expired as of this week, "We're still looking at areas on how to continue that, but I don't see that...."Who's telling the president that masks are no good? He said he didn't want to get into specific conversations that the president may or may not have."If masks truly were the answer where everybody can go back to work, and that they actually worked as the best protocol for keeping people safe, I think everyone would be more than happy to wear their masks and return to work. I don't think the science backs that up. I think it's extra precaution and it's good, but it doesn't necessarily make sure that you're, you're not going to come down with covid."Redfield, not in touch with those closest to the process:"I'm not saying he's not part of the process, I'm saying he's not closest to the decision making as it relates to the clinical 3 trials and the distribution thereof.""Generally speaking, speed of development and speed of distribution is not the strong suit for the CDC, and we saw that going back to the early days of the testing regimen that was put forth."Also this morning, before the pool call time, Larry Kudlow apparently gaggled with reporters. Here's video courtesy of CSPAN. https://www.c-span.org/video/?475942-101/larry-kudlow-speaks-reporters 


 September 17, 2020 12:21

 In town pool report: #4 --- pool called 
Pool was just called to gather for an unspecified reason. 


 September 17, 2020 12:27

 In town pool report #4: oval office 
At 12:21 PM press entered the Oval.The president was seated in the Oval Office at his desk when pool arrived. He is joined by the Interior Secretary, the Finnish ambassador, the US ambassador to Finland, Robert O'Brien and a group of at least 8 other officials, who are fanned out around him, several feet away from the president but elbow to elbow with each other.He says he is committed to working with tribal leaders to make sure their heritage is honored.He is reciting efforts he says his administration has taken to assist Native Americans, including on covid relief.Several of the officials are delivering remarks. More to come. 


September 17, 2020
[APP Note: The second Report #4 (above) is likely Report #5.]


 September 17, 2020 12:42

 Pool Report #6: Oval Office event over/POTUS took no questions 
Hi,Apologies for misnumbering pool report #5 -- "Oval Office" -- there is no 5 as a result, there are two number fours.Onward.The pool left the Oval after roughly 11 minutes. The president took no questions, although he noted he would see us later.Also in the room were Brooke Rollins and Keith Kellogg.Here's some information on the event, per Judd Deere:Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in an event commemorating the repatriation of Native American remains and artifacts from the Republic of Finland.The following individuals are expected to attend:The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpRobert O'Brien, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsBrooke Rollins, Assistant to the President and Acting Director of the Domestic Policy CouncilTrump AdministrationDavid Bernhardt, Secretary of the Department of the InteriorRobert Pence, United States Ambassador to the Republic FinlandTara Sweeney, Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, Department of the InteriorMark Cruz, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Indian Affairs, Department of the InteriorJim. D. James, Deputy Bureau Director, Field Operations, Bureau of Indian Affairs, Department of the InteriorExternal ParticipantsMikko Hautala, Ambassador of the Republic of Finland to the United StatesElina Anttila, Director General of the National Museum of FinlandGregory A. Smith, Trustee, National Museum of the American Indian 


 September 17, 2020 13:29

 In town pool report #7: More from the Oval/lunch lid 
The White House called a lunch lid until 2 pm just after 1pm. Below is more from the president's event.He thanked those in the room for being there for the commemoration of the return of sacred remains."That's a big thing, they've been working on this for a long time. Long long time. Many many years."He said the Finnish ambassador is a "friend" of this country, thanked Colorado Sen. Cory Garder, who he said had been "instrumental" in the return of Native American artifacts that were excavated from Colorado by European archeologists and Gardner had been a "great senator.""Several administrations have tried -- and they tried very hard, they were unable to do it -- to negotiate the return of these precious artifacts."He said he worked last October with the president of Finland to get the artifacts back, and five days ago the remains were repatriated and given a proper burial."I am committed to working with tribal leaders to ensure their cherished heritage is honored, respected and preserved as it should be," he said.POTUS said that his administration is "fighting for Native American communities" and made the largest investment in the history of the country. He said $8 billion in CARES Act funds had been put forward to protect Native American health. "That's the largest amount of money ever spent on the Indian reservations."He said "tremendous progress' is being made on missing Native American children. "It's a terrible situation, but we'll continue to work hard on that problem and many other problems with Indian country and the problems that they've got."He then invited attendees of the event to deliver remarks for several minutes. 


 September 17, 2020 13:30

 In town pool report #8: background on credentialing ceremony 
Judd Deere passes along the following.Today, President Donald J. Trump participated in a Credentialing Ceremony for Newly Appointed Ambassadors to Washington, D.C., in the Oval Office.The following participated:Her Excellency Kirsten Hillman, Ambassador of CanadaHis Excellency Nureldin Mohamed Hamed Satti, Ambassador of the Republic of SudanHis Excellency Onkokame Kitso Mokaila, Ambassador of the Republic of BotswanaHis Excellency Mikko Hautala, Ambassador of the Republic of FinlandHer Excellency Anniken Krutnes, Ambassador of the Kingdom of NorwayHis Excellency Luis Fernando Suazo Barahona, Ambassador of the Republic of HondurasHis Excellency Jean-Arthur Regibeau, Ambassador of the Kingdom of BelgiumHis Excellency Motaz Mounir Zahran, Ambassador of the Arab Republic of EgyptHis Excellency Muhammad Lutfi, Ambassador of the Republic of Indonesia 


 September 17, 2020 14:01

 In town pool report #9: Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's remarks at the White House Conference on American History (as prepared) 
Judd Deere sends along the following:Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's remarks at the White House Conference on American History (as prepared)…Our mission is to defend the legacy of America's Founding, the virtue of America's heroes, and the nobility of the American Character.…On this very day in 1787, our Founding Fathers signed the Constitution at Independence Hall in Philadelphia. It was the fulfillment of thousands of years of Western Civilization. Our Constitution was the product of centuries of tradition, wisdom, and experience. No political document has done more to advance the human condition or propel the engine of progress.…Yet as we gather this afternoon, a radical movement is attempting to demolish this treasured and precious inheritance.…The left has launched a vicious and violent assault on law enforcement – the universal symbol of the rule of law in America.…We are here today to declare that we will NEVER submit to tyranny. We will reclaim our history, and our country, for citizens of every race, color, religion and creed.…The left-wing rioting and mayhem are the direct result of decades of left-wing indoctrination in our schools.…America's founding set in motion the unstoppable chain of events that abolished slavery, secured civil rights, defeated communism and fascism, and built the most fair, equal and prosperous nation in human history.…For many years now, the radicals have mistaken Americans' silence for weakness. But they are wrong. There is no more powerful force than a parent's love for their children – and patriotic moms and dads are going to demand that their children are no longer fed hateful lies about this country. American parents are not going to accept indoctrination in our schools, cancel culture at work, or the repression of traditional faith, culture, and values in the public square. Not anymore.…Critical Race Theory, the 1619 Project, and the crusade against American history is toxic propaganda—an ideological poison that, if not removed, will dissolve the civic bonds that tie us together.…The only path to national unity is through our shared identity as AMERICANS. That is why it is so urgent that we finally restore PATRIOTIC EDUCATION to our schools.…With the help of everyone here today, the legacy of 1776 will never be erased. Our heroes will never be forgotten. Our youth will be taught to love America with all of their heart and soul. We will save this cherished inheritance for our children, for THEIR children, and for every generation to come. 


 September 17, 2020 14:38

 In town pool report #10: POTUS on the move 
The president's motorcade is traveling the short distance to Archives.>From afar the pool could see POTUS enter the Beast at 2:32 pm. Several aides including Brooke Rollins, Stephen Miller and Mark Meadows entered another vehicle in the grouping.We'll be arriving within minutes. 


 September 17, 2020

[APP Note: Report #11 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 September 17, 2020 15:03

 In town pool report #12: POTUS remarks 
The president began his speech at 2:55 pm EDT, following remarks from Vice President Pence, who is seated now on the far left side of the room in front of Education Sec. Betsy DeVos.While you may watch the event online on the White House website, I'll note that the president is referring to a "mob on the street" and cancel culture while talking about America's heritage.He said a "radical movement" is trying to destroy this treasured inheritance. "We can't let that happen," he said.Speech ongoing. 


 September 17, 2020 15:22

 In town pool report #13: leaving Archives 
At 3:11 pm the president finished his remarks and signed a document. Seeking more information from the press office on what exactly he signed. Pool is back in the vans, preparing to make the short trip back to the White House. 


 September 17, 2020 15:33

 In town pool report #14: arrival back at the White House 
The motorcade arrived at the White House at 3:23pm. Pool did not see POTUS reenter the building. 


 September 17, 2020 15:40

 In town pool report #15: what the president signed 
The press office clarifies that what the president signed today was a Constitution Day proclamation.The next event today is listed as the president's departure for JBA in the 6pm hour per the daily guidance. 


 September 17, 2020 18:23

 In town pool report #16: awaiting POTUS 
Pool is outside, awaiting (possible) chopper talk. It is raining here, and the gusts of wind created by Marine One as it landed on the South Lawn nearly claimed several umbrellas. But none, thankfully, blew away.The president is scheduled to depart imminently for JBA. But no sign of him yet. 


 September 17, 2020 18:36

 In town travel pool report 17: POTUS talking 
The rain is interfering with my typing by he is talking to pool 


 September 17, 2020 18:42

 In town pool report #18: departure 
The president spoke for about 4 minutes out on the South Lawn. He took a question about Tik Tok and spoke about the departed Pence staffer. More to follow.Kayleigh McEnany, Mark Meadows and what looked to be Hope Hicks are traveling today, as well as a few others.At 6:42 PM Marine One is JBA bound. 


 September 17, 2020 18:53

 In town pool report #19: chopper talk 
On Tik Tok: he said that conversations took place today with Walmart and Oracle. "I guess Microsoft could stay involved. We'll make a decision."Asked about Olivia Troye, he said, "I just heard about that, I don't know her. She worked for the vice president...I have no idea who she is...I never met her, to the best of my knowledge ...she doesn't know me." 


 September 17, 2020 18:57

 In town pool report #20 -- correx Tik Tok quote//more on Troye 
Listening to the replay, this is what POTUS said on Microsoft."I guess Microsoft is still involved."He went on to say on Miles Taylor after Troye: "I have no idea who he is."He said that Kellog was just on TV excoriating Troye. He said that people leave and get coerced into saying bad things."We will very soon have peace in the Middle East." He said he has 5 other nations that want to sign immediately.He left just after. 


 September 17, 2020 19:28

 In town pool report #21: fuller POTUS departure remarks 
?Audio was cutting out because of the rain and wind for the TV crews too but here's what he said to the best of my ability.Please check against video and transcript.Tik Tok: "Well we're making a decision. We spoke today to Walmart, Oracle. I guess Microsoft is still involved. We'll make a decision, but nothing much has changed. We'll make a decision soon."What is your response to Olivia Troye and some of these former administration officials who are coming out for Democrats: "I just heard about that. I don't know her. She worked for the vice president. She was on the task force as some kind of a lower level person. I have no idea who she is. I never met her. I never met her to the best of my knowledge, maybe she was in a room. I have no idea who she is. She doesn't know me. It's just another person that leaves. And whether it's CNN or Washington Post, they say negative things."We have a letter from her, I was just told, that is absolutely the most beautiful going away letter. She was terminated. They didn't want her. She was terminated. She has nothing to do with me. I don't know her. I never met her. Maybe in a room or something, but I never met her."Mike Pence came to me, told me about her [when] she left. They let her go, with cause, but they let her go, and then she wrote a beautiful letter, as I understand it, a letter praising the administration. But then, the people get hold of her, and say, let's say some bad things about Donald Trump."The same thing with that other young gentleman Miles. I never met him. I don't know him. He's on your network all the time, CNN. I have no idea who he is."It's a terrible thing. We have a big government. Every time somebody leaves government, 99 percent of the time, I'm not going to know these people. And they leave on the basis of, almost like it's a personal thing with me. I have no idea who this person was. But we'll give you a copy of her letter. We'll give you a copy of her letter. And her letter was a beautiful letter. Everything wonderful from, I guess a couple of months ago. I didn't read it, but I heard" it was a beautiful letter."General Keith Kellog, one of the most respected people in the military, he's a great guy, you know him, we all know him, he just went on television excoriating her, saying what a disgrace it is that they're allowed to do it."He repeated a version of the line about the "big massive government" and the people who leave and added that the "bottom line" was that his administration had done more in the first 3.5 years than any previous administration. "Nobody's done what we've done. Nobody's accomplished what we've accomplished. We will very soon have peace in the Middle East, if you can believe that one. We're going to have peace in the Middle East. We have five other nations who want to sign, like almost immediately. We'll end up with peace in the Middle East."I have no idea who this person was, but we wish her well. Thank you very much." 




Pool Reports below by Andrew Restuccia, The Wall Street Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 September 17, 2020 18:59

 Out of town pool report #1 — taking off for Wisconsin soon 
Marine One touched down at JBA at 6:50 pm.It's steadily raining here.POTUS, carrying a black umbrella, disembarked and walked to the AF1. He entered at 6:58 pm.Hope Hicks, Dan Scavino, Mark meadows and Kayleigh McEnany were spotted entering the plane.We're taking off momentarily for Mosinee, Wisconsin. 


 September 17, 2020 21:03

 Out of town pool report #2 — arrival in Wisconsin/Meadows gaggle 
?AF1 touched down at 7:55 pm on local time.White House chief of staff Mark Meadows stopped by to say hello to the press. He told us that the president will not attend the UN General Assembly is person.He left and then came back again and spoke to the pool for about 20 minutes.He read the pool the text of the letter that the VP's former staffer, Olivia Troye, sent to about 100 White House staffers on July 23 as she was departing. We'll send the text of the letter in the next report.Here are notes from the rest of the Meadows gaggle (the TikTok and Israel items are the most newsworthy):On the letter:"It's the swamp fighting back. It's generally speaking, disgruntled employees."Asked what she was disgruntled about/whether she was fired:"I can't speak to personnel matters." He said POTUS didn't know her."I don't remember ever seeing her in there," he said, referring to task force meetings.Asked about positive Covid test in WH:"The system worked.""The positive test has been evaluated...we don't see anybody else who was at risk.""It wasn't part of the Tuesday event," referring to the Abraham Accords signing event.IsraelDeclines to say which other counties will normalize relations with Israel. But he said five countries are seriously considering it. Of the five, he said three of the countries are in the region and two are outside the region. He declined to specify what he meant by "the region."Debate prep:"The president is constantly prepping. We obviously will be well-prepared for the debates. We're not taking it for granted"Says Biden has been in politics for more than four decades: "To suggest that you shouldn't take him seriously would be misguided."Anybody playing Biden in debate prep?"I'm not going to bring you inside the room""I think the expectation is he's well coached." (Referring to Biden)Said the goal of the debate is less about prosecuting Biden than selling Trump's record.Covid relief bill:"There's a lot of energy behind the scenes""This week has been pretty much a waste of confessional time in terms of what they've been able to address."Senate Republicans balking at 1.5 trillion?"That's not a surprise"TikTok:"The deal continues to be fluid. There's no definite proposal that the residents being asked to consider or reject at this point."Airline bill:"Hopeful" at least a stand-alone airline bill can get passed.He said trump would support a stand alone bill on airlines and potentially other things.What kind of stand alone bills would you support: Stand alones for ppp, direct payments, for exampleAn administration official added on TikTokReferring to Trump: "He doesn't want China maintaining any majority controlling interest in TikTok that would potentially put Americans' information at risk." The official added that Trump has been briefed on parts of the deal 


 September 17, 2020 21:05

 Out of town pool report #3 — text of VP staffer's letter 
Here's the text of the letter:Dear Task Force Members,For the past six months, it has been an absolute honor working closely with all of you and your staffs, as part of the brain trust that has valiantly faced the challenges of fighting what has been one of the worst pandemics of our generation. Having been on several conference calls into the late night hours starting in January, to supporting you day and night in every possible way to help you succeed in this mission, I have witnessed first hand how dedicated and committed all of you have been to doing the right thing. Thank you for entrusting me to be your rock during this hard time. I will always be rooting for you knowing that you will continue to fight the good fight.I am moving on from my responsibilities on the White House Coronavirus Task Force. Supporting the Vice President in leading all of you on this effort has been the experience of a lifetime. I have been his Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Advisor for over two years, and as a member of his national security team, we have been through a lot together—but this invisible enemy has been the greatest challenge we have faced.I know that this has been hard for all of us, as we watch our families and all Americans struggle to combat this virus and its effects on our country. Know that your unwavering commitment in the midst of the hardest times is an inspiration to me and Americans across the nation. We are grateful for everything you are doing to keep us all safe.All my best,OliviaOlivia TroyeSpecial Advisor for Homeland Security, Counterterrorism and North AmericaOffice of the Vice PresidentWhite House Coronavirus Task Force 


 September 17, 2020 21:10

 Out of town pool report #4 -- Trump takes the stage 
?POTUS took the stage at 8:08 pm local time.We did not see POTUS step off AF1. We rushed to our seats at the back of the rally.The rally is largely outside, with the press seats and television risers stretching into the front of an airport hangar.His remarks will be carried live, but I'll send any color not visible on TV 


 September 17, 2020 22:44

 Out of town pool report #5 -- on the move 
?The pool is moving. Trump is still speaking, but he's wrapping up.Some color:It's 46 degrees in Mosinee, but it's not raining, mercifully. The president stood on a stage lined with American flags, with Air Force One in the background. There are two risers packed with supporters, one on either side of the stage.Many in the crowd are not wearing masks. I'm awaiting a crowd size estimate. 


 September 17, 2020 22:50

 Out of town pool report #6 — departing Wisconsin 
?Trump wrapped up his remarks at 9:45 pm local time. He left the stage as YMCA blared over the speakers.He briefly greeted supporters lined up near the stage and then walked to Air Force One.He briefly addressed reporters. "I think we're going to win Wisconsin," he said. He did not take questions.He got on AF1 at 9:49 pm local. We're about to take off.-- 


 September 18, 2020 00:45

 Out of town pool report #7 — arrival at JBA/POTUS off record 
AF1 touched down at JBA at 12:33 am.After taxiing, POTUS exited AF1 at 12:43 am, carrying an umbrella. He then got into a waiting suv.Handing off to the in-town pool for the rainy motorcade back to the White House.During the flight, POTUS spoke to the pool off the record for just over 23 minutes.The president put one part of the conversation on the record:"She doesn't want to give farm aid to the farmers. She doesn't want to give farmers any help," the president said of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, adding that she wants to strip out $30 billion in aid to farmers from the coronavirus relief bill. 




Pool Reports below by Clare Roth, BLOOMBERG



Sent:
Reports:




 September 18, 2020 00:47

 In town pool report #22: motorcade 
The president departed JBA in the motorcade at 12:45 and is on his way back to the White House. 


 September 18, 2020 01:13

 In town pool report #23: White House arrival 
?The president arrived at the White House at 1:09 after an uneventful ride. Pool did not see him enter the building. 



  