
    Pool Reports by Lisa Sorg, NC Newsline 



Sent:
Reports:




September 15, 202313:17

Pool report 1/airport arrival, Greensboro, N.C.
VP landed at 1:01 p.m. at Piedmont Triad International Airport, Greensboro, N.C.
No quotes because the event will be livestreamed. (See below)
Some info:
On Background From a White House Official:
Today, Vice President Kamala Harris will travel to Greensboro, NC to continue her nationwide "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour with a stop at North Carolina A&T State University where she will participate in a moderated conversation with EPA Administrator Michael Regan and actor Terrence J – both alumni of the university.
During the event, the Vice President will focus on key issues that disproportionately impact young people across America – from reproductive freedom and gun safety to climate action, voting rights, LGBTQ+ equality, mental health, and book bans. She will also highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered for young people, outline the work ahead to protect fundamental freedoms, urge attendees to register to vote, and take questions directly from students who are organizing on the frontlines of these fights. The moderated conversation will be livestreamed at 2:30PM ETwww.whitehouse.gov/live.
Additional Background on Today's Event at N.C. A&T State University:
North Carolina A&T State University is the country's largest HBCU and has received numerous national awards since its founding in the 1890s. Today's high-energy campus event will proudly feature several of the school's talented student groups including the North Carolina A&T Blue & Gold Marching Machine, the North Carolina A&T Golden Delight and Liquid Gold Majorette Teams, the North Carolina A&T Aggie Success Leaders, student D.J.s, and campus influencers. Governor Roy Cooper, Congresswoman Kathy Manning, Congresswoman Alma Adams, university Chancellor Harold Martin, and student government President Jasmine Amaniampong will also speak during the program.
Additional Background on the "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour:
Vice President Harris's "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour officially kicked off yesterday at Hampton University in Virginia. It is a month-long national swing to mobilize thousands of young people in the ongoing fight for fundamental freedoms and rights. The Vice President is set to visit around a dozen campuses including Hispanic-serving institutions, community colleges, apprenticeship programs, state schools, and additional HBCUs. Following today's tour stop, she will travel to Reading Area Community College in Reading, PA on September 19, Morehouse College in Atlanta, GA on September 26, and the University of Wisconsin-Madison on October 4.
Additional Background on VP Harris's work to engage with young Americans:
This college tour is a continuation of the Vice President Harris's recent nonstop travel, and comes on the heels of her Summer of Action that included visits to 17 states. She has long been dedicated to energizing, engaging, and partnering with young leaders throughout the country, and has consistently led on issues that are important to young people. The Vice President has already been to 12 college campuses this year after visiting 14 schools in 2022. She also regularly meets with young leaders wherever she goes – from climate leaders in Colorado to gun safety advocates in Virginia.



September 15, 202313:18

Pool report 2/ motorcade leaving
Vice president was greeted by North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper and U.S. Rep. Kathy Manning, whose district includes Greensboro. Motorcade left at 1:17 p.m.



September 15, 202313:50

Pool 3/color
1:44 p.m.
En route to the gymnasium, students stood along the motorcade and took photos with their phones.
At the gymnasium, crowds are cheering and stomping its feet. The gym is decked out in blue and gold.
U.S. Rep. Alma Adams is taking the state: "I'm delighted to be here today at my alma mater twice, N.C. A&T. I am a first-generation college student. My mom cleaned other folks' houses so I could attend this amazing university and go on to work in the people's house."
More color coming



September 15, 202314:03

Pool 4/US Kathy Manning
1:53 p.m.
U.S. Rep. Kathy Manning is speaking:
"For many years, Vice President Harris has been an outspoken proponent for voting rights. … One simple action you can take to defend your freedoms and that is to vote. Your vote is your voice. Your vote is our power. It is the single most effective tool to make your voice hard and to participate in American democracy. Whatever you're passionate about, climate change, reproductive rights, gun violence
Elected leaders in North Carolina are so worried about the power of your vote they have tried to diminish the power of that vote. Lawmakers a few years ago drew a line right down the middle of the A&T campus so students to discourage you from voting at all. Those districts were challenged the gerrymandered maps and were thrown out by the courts."



September 15, 202314:07

Pool 5/Gov Roy Cooper remarks
Gov. Roy Cooper of North Carolina:
"There's an electricity buzzing through college campus. And I'm feeling that energy today."
"North Carolina has more HBCUs and more HBCU students than any state in the country. College students are calling out to leaders all over the country. We have to listen. We ignore your demands for action not only at our own peril but our entire future. Investing in our schools and universities, making our education more affordable [applause]. Making sure everyone in this country has affordable health care [applause]. Fighting racism at every turn. [applause]. Protecting sacred freedom to vote. Safeguarding rights of women to choose [inaudible because of applause].
On all those challenges, the Biden-Harris has gone to work. They hear your voices. They hear your questions."



September 15, 202315:30

Pool 6/ final
After VP Harris completed a rope line, the motorcade left the Corbett Sports Center at 3:28 p.m. and headed back to PTI Airport.



September 15, 202316:05

Pool/wheels up
The VP left on AF2, wheels up at 4:05 p.m.




  