
    Today, Biden for President announced the 36 national co-chairs of Catholics for Biden, including:
Former CO State Senator Polly Baca CA Attorney General Xavier Becerra Congressman Brendan F. Boyle  Dr. Anthea Butler  Donna Brazile U.S. Senator Bob Casey Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro U.S. Senate Democratic Whip Dick Durbin Ambassador Elizabeth Frawley Bagley Felice Gorordo U.S. Senator Tim Kaine Congresswoman Marcy Kaptur Victoria Reggie Kennedy Ariane B. Kirkpatrick Congressman Conor Lamb Congressman Ted Lieu Bel Leong-Hong Denis McDonough TX State Senator José Menéndez Henry R. Muñoz III Joan Neal Dr. Brian O'Dwyer Governor Martin O'Malley Ambassador Kevin O'Malley Ambassador Samantha Power  Ambassador Tim Roemer Dr. Stephen F. Schneck Tim Shriver Jr.  Mark Kennedy Shriver Kathleen Kennedy Townsend Congressman Tom Suozzi Congressman Juan Vargas  Frank Vavala, Major General, U.S. Army (retired) Secretary Tom Vilsack Dr. John Kenneth White Dr. Carolyn Woo
"This election is about both restoring and redeeming the soul of our nation. That's why we're honored to announce our Catholics for Biden national co-chairs," said Josh Dickson, Biden for President National Faith Engagement Director. "These leaders in the Catholic community understand that our country is in a consequential moral moment - an historic inflection point that will determine which way we bend the moral arc of the universe."
The announcement follows the launch of Catholics for Biden earlier this month, where over 1,000 attendees joined to hear how the Biden-Harris agenda aligns with common good Catholic values and how Catholics can get involved with the campaign's engagement efforts.
"Our co-chairs share Vice President Biden's and Senator Harris's vision for America, which aligns with the values of our faith," said John McCarthy, Biden for President Deputy Political Director. "That vision is rooted in the ideals of loving our neighbor as ourselves, being our brother's and sister's keeper, caring for the poor and vulnerable, repairing the world around us, sweeping down walls of oppression and injustice, and ensuring everyone has the chance to reach their God-given potential."
  