
    2,200 Nevada Members to Mobilize Caucus Goers for Clinton
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of the Nevada State Association of Letter Carriers. The local NALC consists of over 2,200 active and retired members with representatives in all parts of the state.
"I am happy to see that our members chose to support Senator Clinton in the upcoming elections," said Mick Grizzle President of the Nevada State Association of Letter Carriers. "Our union questions the candidates, informs our members of their responses and then surveys our membership--Senator Clinton was the runaway winner. I was privileged to meet Senator Clinton last year and witness first-hand her leadership and experience when she stood beside us fighting to pass postal reform legislation. With the threat of contracting out our jobs and the loss of benefits--working men and women need a friend in the White House. I am confident that as president, Senator Clinton will continue to work hard on behalf of the nation's letter carriers and I look forward to mobilizing our membership to caucus for her in January."
The National Association of Letter Carrier's national endorsement was announced last Wednesday. The NALC represents 300,000 active and retired city delivery carriers employed by the U.S. Postal Service in all 50 states.
"In the primary elections next year, you can count on letter carriers to deliver for Senator Clinton, and I am confident that in the years to come, President Hillary Clinton will deliver for every citizen throughout America," said NALC President William H. Young. "Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to deliver the change we need. She's ready to lead this country from her first day in the White House."
"There is nobody better prepared to take up the battle for universal health insurance, and there is no one I would trust more than Senator Clinton to strengthen Social Security in order to keep the promises we have made as a nation to our retirees, our disabled workers and to their survivors," Young said.
"I am honored to receive the support of the National Association of Letter Carriers," Clinton said. "These hardworking men and women are part of the fabric of every community in America, and they deserve an advocate in the White House."
  