
    President George W. Bush Today Announced His Intention to Nominate Five Individuals to Serve as Members of His Administration
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Commissioners of the Mississippi River Commission:
Rickey Dale James of Missouri to serve as the Civilian/Civil Engineer Representative for the remainder of a nine-year term expiring April 17, 2009
Nicholas Augustus Prahl of Washington to serve as the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Representative
The President intends to nominate Arthur James Collingsworth to be a member of the National Security Education Board for a term of four years. His past experience includes serving as Senior Advisor to the Royal Institute of International Affairs in London from 1988 to 1998, and Senior Advisor to the International Youth Foundation from 1989 to 1994. Collingsworth was Director of the United Nations University Office for Europe from 1984 to 1988, and Vice President of Youth For Understanding from 1975 to 1982. He received a bachelors degree from the University of Michigan and a Masters degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate John L. Morrison to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for the remainder of a three-year term expiring December 7, 2004. Morrison is currently the Chairman and Co-Founder of Highland Capital, as well as Managing Director and Co-Founder of Goldner Hawn Johnson and Morrison, Inc., both of which are private investment companies in Minneapolis, Minnesota. From 1975 to 1989, he was with the Pillsbury Company in several positions including President of Pillsbury International Group and Executive Vice President and Chairman of the U.S. Consumer foods Group. He is a graduate of Yale University and Harvard Business School.
The President intends to nominate John Portman Higgins to be Inspector General of the Department of Education. Higgins has served at the Department of Education since 1980. He is currently the Director of the Management Improvement Team in the Office of the Deputy Secretary and from 1995 to 2001, he held several positions in the Departments Office of the Inspector General including Deputy Inspector General. Higgins is a graduate of Bethel College.
  