
    "The Romney foreign policy will be a peace through strength foreign policy. We will speak with clarity for freedom, for individual rights, for women's rights, for religious freedom, freedom of speech. And we will support those democracy movements. We will support those yearning for democracy. And we will not gut our military. We want to have the strongest military unquestioned. And I fear that all these cuts the President is pursuing, all this complicity, that's projecting weakness." — Paul Ryan
"Your World With Neil Cavuto"
FOX News
September 27, 2012
Click Here To Watch Paul Ryan
PAUL RYAN: "First of all our policy is to prevent Iran from getting nuclear weapons capability. The best way to prevent war is to be resolved, is to have peace through strength, is not to gut your military, which is what the President is doing. We pushed for the sanctions three years ago that are just now are coming into place only because of bipartisan opposition to the Obama position. President Obama tried to backslide on these sanctions, fought with us for years in Congress. We finally got them into place, they are beginning to work. And I also don't think the President is speaking with credibility. And when he talks about all options being on the table because the administration sends mixed signals on this front and therefore we are not seeing this as credible. I fear that the result of the Obama foreign policy is to project weakness, complicity, moral equivocation abroad. And look at the results: Iran is four years closer toward a nuclear weapon. We said Bashar al-Assad needs to go a year ago, just after we had called him a reformer, and he has slaughtered 20,000 of his people with Russian weapons and we are letting Russia basically veto our resolutions at the Security Council. This is not going well for us. We are seeing our flags being burned around the world. Now I would argue this is a large part because we look weak. We won't be like that. The Romney foreign policy will be a peace through strength foreign policy. We will speak with clarity for freedom, for individual rights, for women's rights, for religious freedom, freedom of speech. And we will support those democracy movements. We will support those yearning for democracy. And we will not gut our military. We want to have the strongest military unquestioned. And I fear that all these cuts the President is pursuing, all this complicity, that's projecting weakness."
  