
    Workers that keep America moving and protect homeland security choose Edwards
New York, New York – The Transport Workers Union of America (TWU) today endorsed Senator John Edwards for president at the union's international headquarters in New York City. Edwards was joined by TWU International President James C. Little, TWU Local 100 President Roger Toussaint, and rank and file members from early caucus and primary states for the announcement.
"I'm proud to stand in New York with members of the Transit Workers Union, who keep the city moving and help keep New Yorkers safe," said Edwards. "The men and women of the TWU serve on the front lines of our country's homeland security, protecting public transportation users, the nation's railways, and skies. These are the workers who get us to our jobs and our families.
"For too long, these good union men and women and millions of other working families have been ignored by a broken system in Washington. I'm looking forward to campaigning with them in early primary states and key general election battleground states, and as president I'll fight for them every day, so we can honor their hard work and make our transportation infrastructure safe and secure."
Nationwide, TWU has a total of 200,000 active and retired members, which brings Edwards over the 2 million member mark for union support – the largest bloc of any presidential candidate. In the last week, Edwards has received endorsements from the Carpenters, who represent 520,000 active members, the Steelworkers with 1.2 million active members and retirees, and the Mine Workers with 105,000 active members and retirees.
"Some candidates seem to be figuring out how to best triangulate on campaign issues," said TWU President James C. Little. "John Edwards takes on subjects such as job security, health care, retirement and the growing gap in wealth between the rich and the middle class in a straight forward way that the country and working families desperately need."
This endorsement further enhances Edwards' strength in early states and in many key battleground states necessary for Democrats to win back the White House. Close to half of the TWU members and retirees live in states that will caucus or vote on or before February 5th, including 8,000 active and retired members in Nevada, 10,000 active and retired members in Oklahoma, 12,000 active and retired members in California, 8,000 active and retired members in New Jersey, and over 50,000 active and retired members in New York.
  