
    Mr. Ambassador, welcome to the White House, once again, sir. And, Secretary Baker, distinguished visitors here, I'm delighted to welcome all for this historic occasion.
In a few minutes I'll be signing a letter to the United States Senate asking its advice and consent to the ratification of the Treaty on the Final Settlement with Respect to Germany. This treaty is the culmination of 6 months of negotiation among its six signatories: two German states, along with the United States, Great Britain, France, and the Soviet Union. More than that, it is a culmination of more than four decades of Western resolve and determination, from the darkest hours of the cold war to the bright, new horizons that now stretch before us.
This agreement will end the artificial division of Germany and Berlin, and it will restore to Germany sovereignty over all its territory and end all remaining Four Power rights and responsibilities. This agreement clears the way to achievement of the goal we Americans have long shared with the German people: a united, democratic, and sovereign Germany.
I congratulate Chancellor Kohl and the German people in both East and West Germany and in Berlin, so long divided, for keeping their dream of national self-determination ever alive. Together with our other partners in the Atlantic alliance, we Americans are proud to have stood beside you during your long vigil, and proud especially during this past year to have worked with you in common cause toward the goal of German unity.
Our policy, our commitment, never wavered as this goal drew nearer. Today Germans and Americans share the fruit of our friendship, and we join our German friends in looking to the future with hope and confidence to the new beginning this treaty will make possible.
On behalf of the American people and the American Presidents before me who sustained our joint resolve, I am pleased to sign this letter transmitting this historic document to the Senate for its advice and consent.
I want to express my appreciation to Secretary Baker, who worked so hard on this, and once again say that it has been a pleasure for me to work with Chancellor Kohl and others from Germany on this very important question.
And now for the signing.
  