
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included in this issue.
September 21
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
September 22
The White House announced that on Saturday, September 20, the President declared an emergency for the State of Maine as a result of an outbreak of toxic shellfish poisoning, beginning on July 30.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Shehu Shagari of Nigeria on October 7 at the White House. President Shagari will be in Washington on an official visit from October 6-8. While in the United States, President Shagari will visit New York City from October 3-6, where he will address the United Nations General Assembly on October 6.
The White House announced that the President has signed a determination authorizing the use of an additional $11.6 million from the United States Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund for the purposes of processing, transportation, caring for and resettling Cubans and Haitians arriving in the United States, and for associated administrative expenses.
September 24
The President met at the White House with:
—his national security advisers, to discuss the situation in Iran and Iraq;
—Stansfield Turner, Director of Central Intelligence, Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President;
—Clark Gruening, Democratic candidate for the U.S. Senate from Alaska.
September 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—President Siaka Stevens of Sierra Leone;
—a group of senior citizen leaders.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Mohammad Zia-ul-Haq of Pakistan on October 3 in Washington. President Zia will be in the United States to address the United Nations General Assembly in his capacity as Spokesman for the Islamic Conference.
September 26
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Watson;
—Representatives Mario Biaggi of New York and Kika de la Garza of Texas;
—Mr. Moore;
—Rev. Jesse Jackson, president of Operation PUSH (People United to Save Humanity);
—Larry Lucas, 5 1/2, of Cleveland, Ohio, the 1980 Sickle Cell Anemia Poster Child;
—Vice President Mondale.
The President announced the appointment of Zane G. Smith, of San Francisco, Calif., as U.S. Government Representative on the Governing Board of the Lake Tahoe Regional Planning Agency. Mr. Smith is the Agriculture Department's regional forester for the Pacific Southwest Region and administers the National Forest lands which make up 65 percent of the Tahoe Basin.
The President announced the persons who will represent the United States at the Brazzaville Centennial celebrations, to be held October 2-4 in Brazzaville, People's Republic of the Congo. J. Bruce Llewellyn, President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, will head the delegation, attending as personal representative of the President. Mrs. Llewellyn will accompany Mr. Llewellyn. The additional representatives of the President will be:
LANNON WALKER, Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs;
HENRY L. MARSH III, mayor of Richmond, Va.;
CLARENCE MITCHELL III, State senator, Maryland;
DONALD B. EASUM, president, African-American Institute;
MARTIN LOWELL ANDREAS, president, Archer Daniels Midland Foods;
DR. JAMES CHEEK, president, Howard University;
B. L. BESSINGER, ABF Ltd.;
MARTIN LUTHER KING III, student;
MILDRED ROBBINS LEET, consultant, Women in Development;
SARAH VAUGHAN, singer.
By participating in the Centennial ceremonies, the United States wishes to underscore improving relations with this important central African country.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Texas as a result of Tropical Storm Danielle, intermittent rains and flooding, beginning on or about September 5, which caused extensive property damage.
In the evening, the President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
  