
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(SENT 9/21/93)(Senate Floor)(Sponsors: Byrd (D), West Virginia; Leahy (D), Vermont)
This Statement of Administration Policy expresses the Administration's views on H.R. 2295, the Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Bill, FY 1994, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee.
The Administration supports Senate passage of H.R. 2295 as reported by the Committee. The Administration is pleased that the Committee has provided full funding for assistance to Russia, Ukraine, Armenia, and the other new independent states of the former Soviet Union. The transition of these states to democratic, free market countries represents a turning point in U.S. foreign relations. A free and democratic Russia will benefit generations of Americans to come, whether those benefits be in the form of new economic opportunities or a safer, more secure world. The United States must do all that is possible to send a strong signal of support during this historic transition. The funding appropriated in H.R. 2295 will provide such support.
The Administration would strongly oppose any efforts to reduce economic assistance to Russia and the other new independent states, or to place burdensome restrictions on the use of such assistance.
The Administration supports the Committee's efforts to honor our commitments to the Camp David countries by fully funding the Administration's request. With the dramatic events unfolding in that region, it is crucial that the United States' support for the countries involved in the peace process not waver.
The Administration appreciates the Committee's efforts to report a bill that is relatively free of earmarks. The Administration understands the funding constraints placed on other foreign assistance programs in order to accommodate the above-mentioned priorities. As a result, the constrained funding levels make it all the more important that the Administration have the maximum possible flexibility to use the remaining funds in accordance with ever-changing foreign policy priorities. Therefore, the Administration could not support further earmarking or restrictions on the floor of the Senate and would work to see that such language be dropped in conference.
This bill could not have reached this stage in the legislative process without strong, bipartisan leadership. The Administration looks forward to continuing to work with Members of both parties to ensure that the United States remains an active and engaged leader in global affairs.
  