
    Steyer proposes term limits to break corporate stranglehold on career politicians in new ad that will air in all four early primary and caucus states.
(SAN FRANCISCO, September 25, 2019) — Today, presidential candidate for the Democratic nomination Tom Steyer launched a new ad calling out Donald Trump and the career GOP politicians who help him rig the system for the rich and powerful. The 30-second spot reasserts Steyer's call for term limits in Congress to break the stranglehold corporations have on our democracy, the cornerstone of his campaign platform.
The new ad features Mitch McConnell, Lindsey Graham, and Chuck Grassley, Republicans who have enabled Trump's lawlessness for years and are now more beholden to corporate interests and lobbyists than to the communities they were elected to represent. It will air in local markets in the four early primary and caucus states of Iowa, New Hampshire, South Carolina, and Nevada.
"Donald Trump is just one guy. It takes an entire village of politicians to rig the system. That's why we need term limits, to make Washington work for you," Steyer said in the ad. "When you're in charge, we can finally deliver health care, education, clean air and water, and wages you can live on. That's the truth. Now, we need action."
Steyer initially called for Congressional term limits when he launched his campaign. His plan proposes a term limit of 12 total years — one that would allow legislators in both the House and Senate to focus less on getting re-elected and more on doing what's right for the American people.
The new ad campaign comes as Steyer recently secured a spot on the Democratic National Committee debate stage in October by gaining his fourth qualifying on Sunday, September 8. Steyer is also well on his way to making the November debate stage, already passing the donor threshold requirement and picking up his first qualifying poll yesterday.
See below for full script:
Donald Trump is just one guy.
It takes an entire village of politicians to rig the system.
That's why we need term limits, to make Washington work for you.
"Speaking of term limits, I have six words for you: Mitch McConnell, Lindsey Graham, Chuck Grassley!" (clip of Steyer at Iowa Wing Ding Dinner)
When you're in charge, we can finally deliver: health care, education, clean air and water, and wages you can live on.
That's the truth. Now, we need action.
I'm Tom Steyer and I approve this message.
  