
    Pool Reports by Liz Goodwin, The Boston Globe



Sent:
Reports:




 September 4, 2020 10:55

 White House Pool Report #1: Kudlow gaggle 
Greetings! Larry Kudlow briefly gaggled in the WH driveway, calling the jobs numbers today "spectacular." He noted a "booming housing sector, booming auto sector.""I think the recovery probably started in late April, May. I think we're in a V-shaped recovery.""I like where we are. What I don't like is the fact that there's still too many people not working.""I think the president's payroll tax deferral will be extremely helpful."
On a COVID relief deal on the Hill, Kudlow said extending the PPP loans "would be very helpful" along with more aid to schools. 


 September 4, 2020 11:27

 White House pool report #2: signing ceremony change 
The pool was taken to the Roosevelt Room around 11 am where two small desks were set up for a signing ceremony that is slated to include the President of Bosnia and the PM of Kosovo. About 10 mins later we were taken back down to the briefing room without the signing having taken place. We're told the signing will now be in the Oval Office and are still waiting to be taken there. 


 September 4, 2020 12:04

 White House pool report #2b: Correction 
In report #2 about the ceremony change, I VERY erroneously wrote the President of Bosnia when I meant the President of Serbia. Sorry about that 


 September 4, 2020 12:00

 Wh pool report #3: signing ceremony, presser at 5 pm 
Trump announced he'll be doing a news conference at 5pm today. See below for signing ceremony and his comments at q&a after, including more about the Atlantic article
—
The pool was ushered into the Oval Office at 1135. Kosovo's PM was on Trump's right and the president of Serbia was seated on his left, both at small desks.
"Serbia and Kosovo have each committed to economic normalization" Trump announced. Trump also said he was making progress on peace in the Middle East and several countries he did not name a were asking him to sign on. He said he looked forward to visiting their countries. Pence, Kushner, Sen Ron Johnson, ambassador Grenell and others were standing behind the president as they signed the agreement.
Officials said they hope the economic normalization will lead to a political normalization. "Let's give them a little taste of the Trump economy," Grenell said.
"Speaking of job growth i think it's important to say our unemployment rate dropped all the way to 8.4 percent," Trump said. "8.4 percent is an incredible number way ahead of schedule."
"It took decades because you didn't have anybody trying to get it done," Trump said of the agreement. "There was a lot of fighting and now there's a lot of love." He credited Grenell for bringing the nations together. "Economics can bring people together."
President Vucic asked to speak. He said Trump had done a "great job" and praised his commitment to the region. Invited him to visit Serbia, said he'd be the first US president since jimmy carter.
PM Hoti praised this as a huge step forward.
Pence congratulated both leaders and praised Trump's "commitment to peace."
Trump also thanked Johnson, saying there are many people from Serbia and Kosovo in Wisconsin. Johnson said people from those countries are "fantastic hosts." "This is a big day for stability in the Balkans."
"You have a very good tennis player playing right now," trump said to president Vucic.
Trump asked by reporter if rate of job growth is fast enough: "You're going to see tremendous growth in the very near future." Said he spoke to Pfizer today and has hopes for vaccines soon. "To me even better when it comes to therapeutics you'll have some incredible news very soon." Said it was a "miracle" how quickly cases went down in Arizona. "Those areas that popped up are really going down." Said convalescent plasma and remdesivir keeping mortality rate down. He said Execs have told him "If this was a more typical kind of President getting these approvals would take two or five years." "As a country we have really done a terrific job," on coronavirus.
He also talked more about the Atlantic story:
"It's a fake story and it's a disgrace that they're allowed to do it" Points out that John Bolton didn't confirm this account in his book.
"To me they're heroes." He said of those who serve, especially those who give their lives. "it's even hard to believe how they could do it" 




Pool Reports below by Lalit K Jha, Press Trust of India



Sent:
Reports:




 September 4, 2020 11:18

 Foreign Pool Report 1 
Hi
Prsident Aleksandar Vu?i? of Serbia motorcade rolled in at West wing front entrance at 10.48 am.
Your Pooler could not see the arrival of Prime Minister Avdullah Hoti of Kosovo.
Pool entered the Roosevelt Room at 11:01 am for the signing ceremony There were two chairs and desks in the room when your Pooler entered the room. One pen on each of the desks.
At 11.05 a WH aide kept a black folder on n the right desk.
We left Roosevelt Room at 11.13 am as we were told that the Signing ceremony would now take place in the Oval Office. Now waiting in tbe press room 


 September 4, 2020 12:04

 Foreign Pool Report 2: POTUS tri-lateral meeting with President Aleksandar Vu?i? of Serbia and Prime Minister Avdullah Hoti of Kosovo and signing ceremony 
Hi
After holding in the press briefing room, your pooler entered the Oval Office at 11:34 am. As you know the signing ceremony was moved to the Oval from Roosevelt Room.
President Aleksandar Vu?i? of Serbia: seated on the right side of POTUS. Prime Minister Avdullah Hoti of Kosovo: seated on the left side of POTUS
As usual please check against official transcripts
POTUS:.A truly historic day. Serbia and Kosovo have announced economic cooperation on a broad range of issues.
Documents were signed at 11.38 am. The signing ceremony completed in about a minute
NSA Robert O'Brian described it as a historic day. Focus is on economic cooperation.
Presidential Envoy Rick Grenell: POTUS asked us to focus on the economy. One of the great parts of the agreement is the freeze over the next year.
POTUS then took questions on economy and job numbers
Responding to a question on Serbia-Kosovo economic agreement he said that It took decades as there was no one to get it done. Economy is going to bring the two countries together. It's going to be the uniting factor. It's going to benefit the economies of both countries.
Serbian President praised POTUS for the great job and his commitment to bring stability and peace in the region. This is a huge step forward.
PM of Kosovo said that this is a great moment for the two countries and the region.
VPOTUS said that this is an important step for peace in the Balkans. We have three peace makers here. This is a historic day.
Senator Ron Johnson from Wisconsin: This is really a historic day. This is a really big deal. People would see the benefit of economic agreement. Congratulated people of Kosovo and Serbia.
As usual pls check against official transcripts
Pool left Oval at 11:57 pm
POTUS announced a press briefing at 5 pm 


 September 4, 2020 12:09

 White House Pool report #3b: seating arrangement correction 
In the Oval Office, Kosovo PM Hoti was on Trump's left and the president of Serbia was seated on Trump's right, both at small desks.
Also a reminder to please check earlier quotes against transcript 


 September 4, 2020 13:22

 White House pool report #3c: signing specifics plus 1 pm briefing 
A little more detail on the Serbia*/Kosovo economic normalization agreement signing earlier today. Hoti and Vucic each had a separate folder with a piece of paper in front of them that they each signed. Then Trump signed two pieces of paper in two different folders and handed each one of the leaders one, before they began applauding.
Also, the White House schedule has been updated with a 1 pm briefing featuring Kayleigh McEnany, Robert O'Brien and Richard Grenell, which has not yet started.
*corrected from earlier 


 September 4, 2020 14:51

 White House pool report #4: lunch lid until 4 
A lunch lid was called at 2:49 until 4 pm-- 


 September 4, 2020 17:03

 WH Pool report #5: Briefing moved to 5:30 
The briefing is starting at 5:30 now 


 September 4, 2020 18:29

 White House Pool Report #6: Travel/photo Lid 
A lid was called at 6:28 p.m. Have a good weekend! 


 September 4, 2020 19:40

 Wh Pool report #7: Netanyahu, Hoti readout 
Statement from Judd Deere below:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Prime Minister Avdullah Hoti of Kosovo. President Trump congratulated the Prime Ministers on the establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel and Kosovo, as well as Kosovo committing to opening an embassy in Jerusalem. The President, Prime Minister Netanyahu, and Prime Minister Hoti agreed that this was another important step forward for broader peace in the Middle East and the rest of the world.-- 



  