
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the President's Commission on Housing:
Myra Goldwater is a realtor in Palm Springs, Calif. Mrs. Goldwater has served as director of the National Association of Realtors since 1978. She was president of the Palm Springs Board of Realtors in 1973-74, and was director of the California Association of Realtors in 1973-78. She has been a member of the Palm Springs Chamber of Commerce for 10 years and has served as a member of the Chamber's board of directors for 3 years. Mrs. Goldwater is married, has one daughter, and resides in Palm Springs. She was born in St. Louis, Mo.
Jasper Stillwell Hawkins is an architect and partner in the firm of Hawkins, Lindsey, Wilson Associates of Phoenix, Ariz. He founded the firm in 1978. He was appointed by President Ford to the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences in 1976. He was a member of the U.S. Delegation to the U.N. Economic Commission for Europe's Working Party on the Building Industry since 1978, and a member of the American Institute of Architects National Codes and Standards Committee since 1970. He is also a member of the California Council of the American Institute of Architects Task Force on Factory Built Housing. Mr. Hawkins graduated from the University of Southern California. He is married, has four children, and resides in Phoenix, Ariz. He was born November 10, 1932, in Orange, N.J.
George Peter Shafran is president and chief executive officer of the Realty Programming Corporation/Homes for Living Network. Mr. Shafran has been in the real estate profession since 1950. He founded Better Homes Realty, Inc., in 1951. The firm now has 23 offices in northern Virginia, Maryland, and the District of Columbia. He received the "Realtor of the Year" award in 1965 and is president of the Northern Virginia Board of Realtors. Mr. Shafran attended Bucknell University, Brown University, American University, and George Washington University. He is married, has four children, and resides in Arlington, Va. He was born May 4, 1926, in Atlas, Pa.
  