
    
  MARINE COMBAT VETERAN AND FORMER NH CONGRESSIONAL CANDIDATE WARD SCOTT THINKS JOHN KASICH SHOULD BE THE NEXT PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES

Scott to Serve on Kasich for America's New Hampshire Steering Committee and as Co-Chair of Veterans for Kasich Committee
Today, Colonel Ward Scott (Ret) – a Marine combat veteran and former Congressional candidate in New Hampshire — endorsed Ohio Governor John Kasich for President. Col. Scott will now serve on the Kasich for America's New Hampshire Steering Committee as well as a Co-Chair of the Veterans for Kasich Committee.
A former enlisted Marine, Col. Scott has 34 years of active and reserve service, including on-the-ground experience in Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the Horn of Africa, and extensively as a civilian in Iraq and Afghanistan. He is the founder and principal of the international commercial law firm Scott Advocates, based in Kabul, Afghanistan, with correspondent offices in Washington, DC. Col. Scott is the father of three serving U.S. Naval Officers — two Marines and a Sailor. An experienced prosecutor as Grafton County Attorney and a member of the Criminal Division of the NH Attorney General's Office, Scott stood for Congress in 1994, and is considered a thought leader among conservative, foreign policy-minded New Hampshire Republicans.
"It is an honor to go on the record regarding my support for Governor Kasich, and to join his campaign team" said Scott. "Our Nation urgently needs a Commander in Chief, and Chief Executive with a deep understanding of national security strategy and policy built through hands-on experience and long-term study. Throughout his 18 years of service on the House Armed Services Committee and later as Ohio's high-energy Chief Executive, Gov. Kasich has consistently demonstrated he has the character, intellect, temperament, and resolve necessary to unify our Nation and Allies, and to deal decisively with our foes at a time of great and continuing peril."
Said Kasich, "It is truly a great honor to have the support of someone as admired and respected as Col. Scott. Having spent more than three decades in defense of our nation, Col. Scott knows how much foreign policy experience matters. I am thrilled to have him join our team in New Hampshire, and thank him for the confidence he has placed in me."
  