
    President Bush. It's a pleasure to be with my friend the President of Brazil. Every time we visit, it's always a fruitful and important discussion. And we talked about climate change. And I assured the President that the event we're having in Washington, which he kindly is coming to, is an important meeting about reaching international consensus on how to move together on the issue of climate change.
We talked about alternative fuels. Brazil, under President Lula's leadership, is a leading producer of ethanol. And he is an evangelist on the subject. And I appreciate very much his leadership, because I believe the United States will benefit from ethanol. And so I look forward to working with you. And I want to thank you for your leadership in Haiti.
And finally, we had a good discussion on Doha. We share a commitment to for— a successful round of trade talks. And I assured the President that the United States would show flexibility, particularly on agricultural goods, in order to help achieve a breakthrough. So I want to thank you for the conversation. It's a joy being with you.
President Lula. First of all, I would like to thank for the opportunity once again to be here with President Bush and with members of his Cabinet. Secondly, we are convinced that on the climate change and the Doha round, we're still dependent on some factors. And one of these factors is the willingness of an important country like the U.S. demonstrating its capability to be flexible.
And President Bush has demonstrated the willingness to reach an agreement; in the many different conversations that we have had, he has demonstrated very clearly his willingness. And the U.S. is willing to be more flexible. And he's also willing to discuss with all countries on climate change. And this has been Brazil's position.
We are convinced that the Doha round is a need; it's something that is a necessity for the rich and for the poor countries. And we'll be—the rich and the developing countries could give a contribution for the less developed countries.
And at the same time, the climate issue is an issue that involves all the human beings on the planet Earth. So all of us, we share responsibility to take care of the planet that we will leave for our grandsons and for our grand-grandsons. We don't want to try to find who to put the blame on or who is innocent. What matters is that everybody has to take care of the planet, because if we don't take of the planet Earth, we will all have something to lose.
I once again told President Bush that Brazil is willing to do its share on the climate issue, as also to cope with what we have to cope with, from the deforestation of the rain forest in the Amazon, which we managed to reduce in 52 percent in the year.
And on the Doha round, Brazil is willing to do whatever is necessary so that we can reach a deal very—[inaudible]. If we manage to convince important countries like China, India, South Africa, Argentina, Mexico, plus the European Union and Japan, I believe that we can, in the next phase, announce good measures as related to the Doha round, as also on the climate change.
So what we are demonstrating is that the issue exists. No one has a definite solution. We are in—just in a learning process on how to cope with this issue. And we all want to do our homework. The demonstration of the political will President Bush has, and myself, is, we're sending a signal that no one owns the truth; everybody knows a little bit and doesn't know so much a little bit too. We want together to add up our knowledge so that we can find the best solutions. Thank you.
President Bush. Thank you, sir.
  