
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and his intention to designate two individuals to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate JoAnn Johnson to be a Board Member of the National Credit Union Administration. Johnson is presently an Iowa State Senator and has served in the State Senate since 1994. She is currently the Chair of the Senate Commerce Committee and was Chair of the Senate Ways and Means Committee from 1996 to 2000. She is a former teacher and farmer. An Iowa native, she is a graduate of the University of Northern Iowa.
The President intends to designate Dennis Earl Dollar to be Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration. Dollar has served as a member of the National Credit Union Administration since 1997 and is a former two-term member of the Mississippi House of Representatives. Dollar served as President and CEO of Gulfport VA Federal Credit Union from 1992 to 1997, and was named CEO of the Year in 1994 by a leading credit union industry publication. He is a graduate of the University of Mississippi.
The President intends to nominate Shirlee Bowné to be a member of the Federal Housing Finance Board, and upon confirmation, she will be designated Chairman. Browné is currently the President of S. Browné and Company in Tallahassee, Florida and is a member of the Board of Directors of the Florida Central Credit Union. From 1991 to 1997, she served as Vice Chairman of the National Credit Union Administration and Vice Chairman of the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation.
The President intends to nominate Tammy Dee McCutchen to be Administrator of the Wage Hour Division at the Department of Labor. McCutchen is presently Associate Senior Counsel for Hershey Foods Corporation. From 1995 to 1999, she was an Associate with Matkov, Salzman, Madoff and Gunn in Chicago, Illinois, and she was an Associate with Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher and Flom in Chicago, from 1992 to 1995. McCutchen is a graduate of Western Illinois University and Northwestern University School of Law.
The President intends to designate Everett Alvarez, Jr., to be Chairman of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. Alvarez is presently a member of the Board of Regents of the Uniform Services University of the Health Sciences, and he is a member of the President's Task Force to Improve Health Care Delivery to Our Nation's Veterans. He served as Deputy Director of the Peace Corps from 1981 to 1982, and served at the Department of Veteran's Affairs from 1982 to 1986.
  