
    Douglas J. Besharov, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2011, vice Richard James Milgram, term expired.
Elizabeth Ann Bryan, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2012. (Reappointment)
James X. Dempsey, of California, to be a Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term of five years expiring January 29, 2013. (New Position)
Robert B. Eley, of Mississippi, to be a Member of the Mississippi River Commission for a term of nine years, vice Sam Epstein Angel, term expiring.
Lynn S. Fuchs, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2012, vice Joseph K. Torgesen, term expiring.
Robert C. Granger, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2012. (Reappointment)
Dave Heineman, of Nebraska, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2011, vice Mel Carnahan.
Caroline M. Hoxby, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2012. (Reappointment)
Paul E. Peterson, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2011, vice Herbert John Walberg, term expired.
John L. Winn, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring November 28, 2012, vice Gerald Lee, term expiring.
Patrick J. Wolf, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Board for Education Sciences for a term expiring March 15, 2012, vice Craig T. Ramey, term expired.
Michael Young, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for a term of six years expiring August 30, 2014. (Reappointment)
  