
    Diverse and Prominent Business, Civic, and Political Leaders Support Hillary Clinton
Bethesda, MD- A who's who in the business, political and civic communities will attend a fundraiser at the home of Weldon and Constantia Latham on Wednesday, September 12, 2007. In June, Senator Hillary Clinton named Washington attorney and Democratic activist Weldon Latham as a National Co-Chair of her campaign.
The gathering will include some of the most prominent business, civic, and political leaders. The host committee, which is still in formation, includes several current and former public officials, such as members of Congress including Reps. Emanuel Cleaver (MO), Sheila Jackson Lee (TX), Greg Meeks (NY), and Charles Rangel (NY); Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley and New York Attorney General and former Housing and Urban Development (HUD) Secretary Andrew Cuomo. The host committee also consists of former Veterans Affairs Secretary Togo West, former Small Business Administration (SBA) Administrator Aida Alvarez, former U.S. House Majority Whip Bill Gray, and former Denver Mayor Wellington Webb. Business and civic leaders include former DC Democratic State Committee Chair A. Scott Bolden, Washington Gas Chairman & CEO James De Graffenreidt, Jr., Lehman Bros. executive Ernie Green, and Democratic National Committee (DNC) Women's Caucus Chair Mame Reiley.
"I am honored to have such a distinguished group of current and former elected officials, business and civic leaders supporting my candidacy. With their help, together we can make a better America," Hillary Clinton said.
"Latham has a distinguished record of public service, currently serving as Chair of the Legal Committee of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority, and formerly as a member of the SBA's National Advisory Council, Civilian Aide to the Secretary of the Army (Clinton Administration), General Deputy Assistant Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development (Carter Administration), and Assistant General Counsel, Executive Office of the President, Office of Management and Budget (Ford Administration), as well as an At-Large DNC member, Counsel to the 1996 DNC Platform Committee, DNC Trustee, Vice-Chair of the Democratic Business Council, as well as Honorary Vice-Chair of the Clinton/Gore campaign.
"Hillary Clinton is a strong and decisive leader with the experience and vision that make her uniquely qualified to be the next president. Among her many formidable skills is her ability to listen to what Americans are saying about their lives, about their families and about the issues that concern them. Hillary Clinton has translated listening into leadership," said Weldon Latham.
"The Democratic Party has great diversity in our candidates, but we need to make sure that we have the best-qualified and most experienced person with a proven track record leading our nation. After eight years of the Bush administration, America deserves the kind of leadership and vision that Hillary Clinton will bring to the presidency," added Latham.
Latham is a senior partner and Chair of the Corporate Diversity Counseling Group at the international law firm Davis Wright Tremaine, with over 30 years of experience in corporate law, crisis management, corporate diversity counseling and government relations.
As one of the country's leading experts on discrimination law and corporate diversity, Latham works with major corporations, government officials and quasi-government agencies when they are faced with highly-publicized charges of race and gender discrimination. He also advises Fortune 200 CEOs on how to create better and more productive workplaces by fostering diversity and inclusion.
  