
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Council on Vocational Education. These are new positions.
For terms expiring January 17, 1986:
Marilyn D. Liddicoat is an attorney in Watsonville, CA. Previously she was chairman of the Santa Cruz County Board of Supervisors. She served on the Santa Cruz County Board of Education for 6 years. She graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles (B.A.) and the University of Southern California (.I.D.). She was born October 2, 1931, in Los Angeles, CA, and now resides in Watsonville, CA.
Joe C. Nunez is executive director of the Latin American Research Service Agency in Denver, CO. Previously he was an investigator for the Colorado Department of Labor. He graduated from the University of Northern Colorado (B.A., 1959) and the Inter American University of Puerto Rico (M.A., 1976). He was born April 5, 1937, in Greeley, CO, and now resides in Englewood, CO.
Ray Shamie is founder and chairman of the Metal Bellows Corp. in Sharon, MA. He is a director of the Massachusetts High Technology Council and an adviser and trustee of the National Schools Committee for Economic Education. He is the founder and chairman of Productivity Communication Center, a nonprofit educational foundation based in Boston. He was born February 14, 1921, in Brooklyn, NY, and now resides in Walpole, MA.
Arthur E. Vadnais is supervisor of education coordination for the Minnesota State Board of Vocational-Technical Education in St. Paul. He graduated from the University of Minnesota (B.S., 1962). He was born December 23, 1928, in Chicago, IL, and now resides in Minneapolis, MN.
For terms expiring January 17, 1987:
George Johnston Ames is president of Asa Properties in San Antonio, TX. He is a member of the board of directors and secretary/treasurer of the Southwest Food Industry Association. He graduated from Trinity University in San Antonio, TX. He was born July 28, 1940, in Gladewater, TX, and now resides in San Antonio.
Pier A. Gherini, Jr., is executive vice president of Westpac Shelter Corp. in Santa Barbara, CA. Previously he was president of Cow Hollow Investment Co. in San Francisco. He graduated from the University of San Francisco (B.A., 1965). He was born December 28, 1942, in Pecos, TX, and now resides in Santa Barbara.
William C. Hayes is president of Windsor Financial Corp., a real estate development company, in Encino, CA. He graduated from Brigham Young University (B.S., 1963). He was born July 25, 1941, in Los Angeles, CA, and now resides in Woodland Hills, CA.
  