
    Whereas the Departments and agencies of the Federal Government have adopted uniform and consistent regulations implementing Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and, in cooperation with the President's Council on Equal Opportunity, have embarked on a coordinated program of enforcement of the provisions of that Title;
Whereas the issues hereafter arising in connection with coordination of the activities of the departments and agencies under that Title will be predominantly legal in character and in many cases will be related to judicial enforcement; and
Whereas the Attorney General is the chief law officer of the Federal Government and is charged with the duty of enforcing the laws of the United States:
Now, THEREFORE, by virtue of the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and laws of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. The Attorney General shall assist Federal departments and agencies to coordinate their programs and activities and adopt consistent and uniform policies, practices, and procedures with respect to the enforcement of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. He may promulgate such rules and regulations as he shall deem necessary to carry out his functions under this Order.
SEC. 2. Each Federal department and agency shall cooperate with the Attorney General in the performance of his functions under this Order and shall furnish him such reports and information as he may request.
SEC. 3. Effective 30 days from the date of this Order, Executive Order No. 11197 of February 5, 1965, is revoked. Such records of the President's Council on Equal Opportunity as may pertain to the enforcement of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 shall be transferred to the Attorney General.
SEC. 4. All rules, regulations, orders, instructions, designations and other directives issued by the President's Council on Equal Opportunity relating to the implementation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 shall remain in full force and effect unless and until revoked or superseded by directives of the Attorney General.
LYNDON B. JOHNSON
THE WHITE HOUSE
September 24, 1965
  