
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate Floor)(Sponsor: Byrd (D), West Virginia)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 2520, the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1994, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee. The administration supports Senate passage of H.R. 2520 and will work with the Congress to address the concerns described below and in the attachment.
The Administration supports the Committee action that funds many of the President's investment proposals for the Departments of the Interior and Energy, the Forest Service, and the Indian Health Service.
The Administration is pleased that the Committee has supported portions of the enhanced natural resource protection and environmental infrastructure initiative. These funds are essential to further the protection and rehabilitation of America's inventory of natural and cultural assets, including our national parks and forests. They are also crucial to formulating an appropriate, comprehensive response to the April 1993 Forest Conference on the Pacific Northwest.
Community Assistance is critical to the areas affected by the spotted-owl issue, and it is an important component of the Administration's follow-up to the April 1993 Forest Conference. The Administration is pleased that funding is provided for important community assistance programs such as the Columbia River Gorge projects and the Old Growth Diversification projects. However, no additional funding is provided for the Rural Community Assistance programs as authorized by the 1990 Farm Bill. The Administration strongly supports funding for these programs to support economic recovery and economic diversification in the Pacific Northwest.
The Administration commends the Congress for including mandatory funding for payments to counties in the Pacific Northwest in the recently passed Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Ret of 1993. This funding, which was part of the Administration's FY 1994 budget request, will guarantee payments to counties in the Pacific Northwest affected by reduction in timber production due to spotted-owl court injunctions. The Administration would support Senate action, as addressed in the Committee report, to shift funds directed to payments to counties by the Committee bill, to the ecosystem and community and worker assistance components of the President's plan. This shift in funding would support the Administration's follow-up to the Forest Conference.
The Administration is pleased that the Committee bill provides funds for the new National Biological Survey. The new bureau will enable the Department of the Interior to improve the quality of biological research such that better informed decision-making will be available in the management of the nation's Federally managed lands.
The Administration would oppose any potential floor amendments to alter the grazing fee proposals that were announced on August 9th and are now under public review. The Administration also would oppose authorization in the bill of new hardrock mining royalties since the Administration is continuing to work with the authorizing committees of Congress on comprehensive hardrock mining reform.
The Committee has reduced the President's request for Energy Conservation by $101 million. This significant reduction would delay implementation of certain sections of the Energy Policy Act of 1992. The Committee's recommendation would also reduce conservation grants activities by over $50 million. This would delete the Administration's matching grant initiative and reduce support for State-level energy conservation activities. Even if States cannot come up with matching funds in FY 1994, the Administration believes that these funds should be appropriated for the existing conservation grants programs. The Administration agrees with the Committee that efforts should continue to implement a matching grants program in FY 1995.
The Administration requests that the Senate fund the Fossil Energy Research and Development account at the requested level of $398.4 million, which is $30.6 million less than recommended by the Committee. The Administration encourages the Senate to reduce funding for coal programs by $19.3 million and to reduce by $17.5 million funding for program direction, cooperative research and development, and facilities. Additional funding could then be restored for the natural gas and petroleum programs. Specifically, the Administration requests that $2.5 million be restored for the President's investment initiative supporting the Advanced Turbine Systems program to sustain this important effort for America's energy future.
The Committee bill would prohibit the establishment of any personnel ceiling for the Indian Health Service (IHS). This would prevent any IHS FTE reductions based on the President's Executive Order to reduce Federal staff. The Administration encourages the Senate to remove this provision and is committed to working with the Congress to resolve its concerns about IHS staffing.
Additional Administration concerns with the Committee bill are contained in the attachment.
Attachment

Attachment(Senate Floor)
ADDITIONAL CONCERNS
H.R. 2520 — DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR AND RELATED AGENCIES APPROPRIATIONS BILL, FY 1994
(AS REPORTED BY THE SENATE FULL COMMITTEE)
The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to address the following concerns as the appropriations process progresses.
FUNDING ISSUES

Forest Service

Forests for the Future Initiative. The Committee did not include any funds for the Administration's Forests for the Future initiative. The funds are important to conserve forest resources worldwide and to help meet the U.S. commitments made at the June 1992 UNCED Earth Summit. 
National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities

National Endowment for the Arts. The Committee has reduced the requested level of funding for the National Endowment for the Arts below the requested level. The Administration believes that the President's request is appropriate, and urges the Senate to restore funding to that level. 

LANGUAGE PROVISIONS

Below-Cost Timber Sales. The Administration is committed to a gradual(phase-out of below-cost sales in National Forests, and plans to work with the Congress in determining which timber sales are below-cost. The Administration objects to Committee report language that would severely limit the ability of the Forest Service to begin implementation of this policy in FY 1994.
Indian Health Service (IHS). The Committee bill would prohibit the implementation of eligibility regulations for the IHS. This provision would interfere with the Executive Branch's ability to manage programs. The Administration encourages the Senate to remove this provision.
National Foundation for the Arts and Humanities. The Administration understands that an amendment may be offered regarding the use of funds from this bill for the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities. The Administration has submitted to Congress its proposal for a simple extension of the National Foundation for the Arts and Humanities Act, which would continue the authorization for this activity. The Administration asks the Senate not to prohibit support of the President's Committee, so that its continuation can be considered as part of a reauthorization in the next Congress.
Federal Tort Claims Act. The Administration urges the Senate to delete section 311 of the Committee bill. This provision would expand the liability of the United States under the Federal Tort Claims Act for acts or omissions of persons who are not Federal employees. OMB estimates the cost of this provision to be approximately $1.5 million over the next five years. OMB would score $250 thousand in discretionary funding for FY 1994.
Infringements on Executive Authority. There are several provisions in the Committee bill that would mandate Congressional approval prior to Executive Branch execution of aspects of the bill. The Administration will interpret such provisos as requiring notification only, since any other interpretation would contradict the Supreme Court ruling in INS vs. Chadha. 
  