
    Pool Reports by Hunter Walker, Yahoo! News



Sent:
Reports:




 September 1, 2020 09:11

 In Town Pool #1- Good morning!
Hello!
It's a quiet, drizzly morning at the White House ahead of the president's trip to Kenosha, Wisconsin.
Your pooler will be handing off to the travel pool soon, but we will let you know if there's anything worth reporting from the lawn or West Wing in the meantime. 


 September 1, 2020 09:24

 In Town Pool #2 - Mark Meadows sighting 
Chief of Staff Mark Meadows walked past reporters near the stakeout location at about 9:22 am following his interview on CNBC. Meadows briskly walked by without taking questions and said he had to take "a phone call" inside. Meadows said he would "come back" for a gaggle.
Stay tuned ... 


 September 1, 2020 10:18

 In town Pool #3 - Gather for departure 
At 10:16 am the White House called the out of town travel pool to gather for the president's departure. Your in town pooler is handing it over to them.
There was no further sighting of the chief of staff following his phone call. 


 September 1, 2020 18:29

 In Town Pool Report #4 - Travel/Photo Lid 
The White House called a travel/photo lid at about 6:28 pm.
President Trump disembarked from the motorcade and walked into the White House through the North Portico at about 6:25 pm. He gave a brief wave to the press on the far end of the North Lawn as he went through the doors.
Eagle eyed photographers spotted Stephen Miller going in the White House near the Palm Room doors. A Secret Service agent asked to see Miller's ID before letting him pass. 




Pool Reports below by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail



Sent:
Reports:




 September 1, 2020 10:59

 Out of town pool #1 - departure to JBA 
Good morning from your out of town pool.
Motorcade departed the White House at 10:57 am.
Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS but saw Stephen Miller near the motorcade as pool loaded into the vans. Chief of Staff Mark Meadows said in his CNBC interview this am he would be going on the trip too.
We are lights and sirens to JBA. 


 September 1, 2020 11:25

 Out of town pool report #2 - At JBA and POTUS talking 
Motorcade arrived at JBA at 11:19 am.
POTUS is out of The Beast and taking questions.
He said he didn't know if he was meeting with Jacob Blake family.
More TK
Ride was uneventful with a few people along the National Mall taking pics with cell phones and waving. Motorcade did not stop for lights and streets had been cleared of traffic. POTUS tweeted a few times during drive. 


 September 1, 2020 11:31

 Out of town pool #3 - More POTUS 
Asked about the plane load of unformed men he mentioned in his Fox interview last night. I will see whether or not I can get that person to speak to you. "Maybe they will speak to you and maybe they won't."
On Kenosha: "We are really going to say hello to law enforcement and the National Guard."
Said he saw people trying to break into Kenosha mayor's house when watching coverage: "Very stupid mayor. I don't see how he can be mayor. ... He still sticks up for them. Only a fool would stick up for them."
Attacked fake media for its coverage of Kenosha.
Asked if his visit will help racial tensions: "I think it's helping because I'm about law and order."
Asked if he will talk with governor: "I may. I'm also going to be speaking to pastor."
As always please check transcript. More TK 


 September 1, 2020 11:35

 Out of town pool report #4 - More POTUS and departure 
POTUS took questions for 11 minutes. He boarded at 11:32 am with a wave.
"You have to help airlines," he said when asked about them.
He said he's working with companies on drug pricing.
Pool also saw Kayleigh McEnany boarding.
We are on the small plane, which means limited cell service on board. Pool is boarding and anticipate wheels up shortly to Waukegan, Illinois, airport. 


 September 1, 2020 12:22

 Out of town pool report #5 - arrival in Waukegan 
AF1 was wheels up at 11:43 am ET from JBA and wheels down at Waukegan National Airport at 12:14 pm central time.
Flight was uneventful although bumpy at times. 


 September 1, 2020 12:30

 Out of town pool report #6 - departing airport and brief POTUS remarks 
POTUS deplaned at 12:25 pm.
He was greeted by Senator Ron Johnson who was wearing a mask.
POTUS made brief remarks and said they would make a couple of stops today.
POTUS: "The violence stopped from the time the National Guard came. ... We'll have plenty to talk about."
POTUS is motorcading to Kenosha from the Waukegan, Illinois, airport. It is an approximately 30 minute ride.
AG Bill Barr, Acting Homeland Security Secretary Chad Wolf, Ja'Ron Smith, Dan Scavino and Reince Priebus were also on the fight.
At 12:29 pm we are rolling from airport. 


 September 1, 2020 12:32

 Out of town pool report #7 - comments from POTUS doctor 
Passing along from Judd Deere:>From Dr. Sean P. Conley, Physician to the President:
"President Donald J Trump has asked that I, Dr. Sean Conley, Physician to the President, address the recent public comments regarding his health. I can confirm that President Trump has not experienced nor been evaluated for a cerebrovascular accident (stroke), transient ischemic attack (mini stroke), or any acute cardiovascular emergencies, as have been incorrectly reported in the media.
"The President remains healthy and I have no concerns about his ability to maintain the rigorous schedule ahead of him. As stated in my last report, I expect him to remain fit to execute the duties of the Presidency." 


 September 1, 2020 13:52

 Out of town pool report #8 - entering Kenosha city limits 
Motorcade entered Kenosha city limits at 12:50 pm.
We are in route to our first stop, a damaged property.
Color from route:
There were about 100 or so people at the airport exit, many waving Trump/Pence signs.
Further down the road was a mix of supporters of POTUS and people waving Black Lives Matter signs. One person held up a homemade sign reading "Liar" and waved it at motorcade.
Another older gentleman further down the road saluted the motorcade as it went past. Many people are out and many of them have their children with them. Lots of people waving American flags and there are a few Blue Lives Matters flags. One Biden sign was seen.
Along the entire route was a mix of people waving Black Lives Matter signs and many Trump supporters waving Trump 2020 signs. Essentially every intersection had a gathering of people. 


 September 1, 2020 14:02

 Out of town pool report #9 - at damaged property 
POTUS approached a burnt out building at 12:58 pm. Barr and Wolf with him. He is speaking to two officials.
The air still smells of smoke.
POTUS then moved on to speak to a group of people. Pool cannot hear his remarks.
As we approached the property there was a large group protesting the president, their middle fingers pointed at motorcade.
There were several large military type trucks as we pulled in.
A bit more color from final part of route: there was a person on the route wearing a "Make Kenosha Great Again" t-shirt. There was also a large sign that said "Trump Sucks" 


 September 1, 2020 14:38

 Out of town pool report #10 - POTUS remarks at burned out property 
Trump visits a torched store under heavy security, with armored personnel carriers and police in camouflage and carrying automatic rifles blocking the street.
Says to owners of a burned down store:"We're going to help them, we're going to help them a lot"
These gentlemen did a fantastic job," says pointing to sheriffs officers.
"We'll help you rebuild."
"This is a great area, a great state." 


 September 1, 2020 14:16

 Out of town pool report #11 - arrival at high school 
Motorcade arrived at high school at 1:15 pm.
Many Trump supporters around high school with a few detractors. National Guard members were present.
Along the route was another mix of supporters and protesters.
"Thank you for saving our town," read one sign. "Not my president," read another with another person giving the motorcade the finger.
Apologies if there are numbering issues in reports or any delays. Cell service has been spotty in parts. 


 September 1, 2020 14:36

 Out of town pool report # 12 - at command center 
POTUS entered command center at 1:23 pm. Barr and Wolf and Sen. Johnson are with him.
Johnson thanked him for coming.
POTUS said the Portland mayor's house was attacked: "All they have to do is ask and we'll be there within minutes."
More POTUS: "This ended in a hour as soon as we announced we were coming. It ended immediately."
"You have to be tough. You have to be strong."
He said he was waiting on a call from Portland but also said the government called and offered help.
"We're ready to go with whatever power we need to use." "It will take approximately 15 minutes."
"You don't see people knocking down statues anymore" after I signed the order.
Asked if he had a message for Blake family he said he will speak to Jacob's family pastor later. Said he wanted to talk to mother later but: "It's also better off if it's handled locally.
There is a display at the command center with yellow construction helmets, homemade shields that say Black Lives Matter, a bull horn, sticks and knee pads.
Room is full of local law enforcement officials and National Guard.
In the back are computers set up. This appears to be used as a cafeteria when school is in session. Tables are folded and stacked along back wall. 


 September 1, 2020 15:00

 Out of town pool report #13 - POTUS round table 
POTUS is holding a round table with Barr, Wolf, Sen. Johnson and Rep. Bryan Steil. There are also local business owners.
It is being streamed live: https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f...
Reince Priebus is sitting along the back wall. There are photos of damaged parts of the city posted behind POTUS.
Pool was taken out of commander center and held in a separate part of high school while we waited on round table to begin. We held in a volunteer area where there was food being given out to first responders and volunteers.
Note Rep. Bryan Steil of Kenosha also toured the command center with POTUS.
I also want to apologize for some tech problems on my end with email that resulted in delayed reports and why the numbering is off. Thanks to co-pooler Sebastian Smith of AFP for his invaluable help during my tech meltdown. And thanks to all for their patience and understanding.
Round table is ongoing with business owners talking about their businesses and what they need.
"We'll get Kenosha back in shape," POTUS said. 


 September 1, 2020 15:12

 Out of town pool report #14 - round table remarks and list of participants 
POTUS said government will provide $1 million to police and nearly $4 million to small businesses and $42 million for public safety.
Some POTUS quotes:
"I feel so safe. And you went through hell a few days ago but I feel safe. I better be safe."
"We have to condemn the dangerous anti police rhetoric. It's getting more and more."
"You have some bad apples. ... but you have a quarter of a second to make a decision."
"There was love in the streets of Wisconsin when we were coming in. There was love in the streets."Here is the list of participants courtesy of the White House:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will participate in a community safety roundtable in Kenosha, Wisconsin.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Trump Administration Attorney General William Barr, Department of Justice Acting Secretary Chad Wolf, Department of Homeland Security
Members of CongressSenator Ron Johnson, United States Senator from WisconsinRepresentative Bryan Steil, United States Representative from Wisconsin's 1st Congressional District
External ParticipantsChief Daniel Miskinis, Chief of Police, Kenosha, WisconsinSheriff David Beth, Sheriff, Kenosha County, WisconsinZach Rodriguez, Supervisor, Kenosha County, WisconsinErin Decker, Supervisor, Kenosha County, WisconsinDon Kapla, President, Wisconsin Fraternal Order of PoliceJerry Johnson, National Trustee, Wisconsin Fraternal Order of PolicePastor James Ward, Pastor, INSIGHT ChurchPastor Sharon Ward, Pastor, INSIGHT ChurchMajor General Paul E. Knapp, Adjutant General, Wisconsin National GuardJohn Morrissey, City Administrator, Kenosha, WisconsinState Senator Van Wanggaard, State Senator from Wisconsin's 21st State Senate DistrictState Representative Samantha Kerkman, State Representative from Wisconsin's 61st State House DistrictScott Carpenter, Co-Owner, B&L Office FurnitureLinda Carpenter, Co-Owner, B&L Office FurnitureKimberly Warner, Owner, Authentique Gifts and RePour'd Candle FactoryJohn Rode III, Owner, Rode's Camera ShopRiki Tagliapietra, Director of Operations, The Grease and Honey Group of Kenosha 


 September 1, 2020 15:43

 Out of town pool report #15 - Round table end and POTUS takes questions 
POTUS took a few questions at end of the roundtable.
"We're tired of watching every night with Portland. We're on night 104 now."
"We'd love to help Oregon. We'd love to help Portland. ... We can have people there in less than an hour."
On what he'd say to Blake family: "I feel terribly for anybody who goes through that. ... I know it's under investigation. ... it's a complicated subject."
Should police wear body cameras: "well that's very interesting. Let me ask Bill to answer that."
AG Barr said it's a local issue but said more and more officials are supporting it as they see them as a "benefit."
At end of round table, before he took questions, POTUS invited the pastors - both from Insight Church - to say a prayer.
Pastor James Ward prayed for the return of empathy and compassion. He asked for prayers for POTUS.
He said we pray for Jacob's continued healing.
Pastor Sharon Ward said this is a good opportunity to help heal the nation.
Pool was pulled at 2:41 pm and is headed back to vans. 


 September 1, 2020 15:48

 Out of town pool report #16 - motorcade rolling from command center 
At 2:45 pm, motorcade is rolling from Mary D Bradford high school where the command center is located and the roundtable took place.
As we waited in vans to leave, pool saw AG Barr talking to a group of people wearing jackets that said AFP and DEA. 


 September 1, 2020 16:16

 Out of town pool #17 - back at airport 
Motorcade arrived at the Waukegan National Airport at 3:13 pm.
POTUS was boarding AF1 as pool got out of vans.
Ride back was uneventful.
Many Trump supporters cheered on motorcade as it left the high school.
There were several Dump Trump homemade signs on the drive back. But there also appeared to be about an equal number of Trump 2020 signs.
There was a homemade "thank you" sign forTrump that was held by a few little girls and a woman behind them was holding a dump Trump sign. One woman on the route held a Biden for president sign.
One girl on the route waved a hand made "Kenosha Strong" sign
Near the airport was a large group of Black Lives Matter protesters. At the airport entrance was a large group of Trump supporters.
Also a correction to last pool report: the group talking to Barr was wearing ATF and DEA jackets. Last pool report had a typo.
Pool is also boarding and we will be taking off soon. 


 September 1, 2020 17:57

 Out of pool report #18 - JBA arrival 
AF1 was wheels up at 3:27 pm central time and wheels down at JBA at 5:50 pm eastern time.
Flight was uneventful. No visitors. 


 September 1, 2020 18:03

 Out of town pool report #19 - leaving JBA 
POTUS exited Air Force One at 5:59 pm.
AG Barr and Wolf walked off the plane with him. POTUS did not stop for questions.
Motorcade leaving JBA at 6:02 pm to head back to White House. 


 September 1, 2020 18:07

 Out of town pool report #20 - Kenosha small business owners and officials from damaged property stop 
Here are the people POTUS spoke to at the damaged property stop in Kenosha - courtesy of the White House:
Chief Daniel MiskinisSheriff David BethScott Carpenter, Owner B&L FurnitureLinda Carpenter, Owner B&L FurnitureKimberly Warner, Owner Authentique Gifts and RePour'd Candle FactoryJohn Rode III, Owner Rode's Camera ShopRiki Tagiapietra, Director of Operations, The Grease and Honey Group of Kenosha 


 September 1, 2020 18:25

 Out of town pool report #21 - back at WH 
Motorcade arrived back at White House at 6:24 pm.
Pool did not lay eyes on POTUS.
Ride back was uneventful with lights and sirens full way back.Many thanks to co-pooler extraordinaire Sebastian Smith of AFP for all his help on a busy day.
Handing off to the in town pool... 



  