
    "We have to keep voting to pursue the policies that impact people's lives," Vice President Harris told thousands of students in Atlanta while continuing her nationwide "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour
ATLANTA - Vice President Kamala Harris "received a deafening welcome in Atlanta today" as she celebrated National HBCU Week with an overflow crowd of young leaders from Morehouse College, Spelman College, Clark Atlanta University, and Morris Brown College.
The moderated conversation in front of thousands of students was the fifth stop of the Vice President's nationwide "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour in which she is highlighting how the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered for young Americans, taking questions directly from students, and urging attendees to register to vote. She is also addressing a wide range of issues that are impacting young people throughout the country - from gun violence and attacks on reproductive freedom, to voter suppression, the climate crisis, and book bans.
"There is what I believe is a full-on intentional attack against hard-won, hard-fought freedoms...it does not have to be this way, and the way that we change it is by ensuring that we stand up, we are vocal, and that we fight for our freedoms," said Vice President Harris. "You are not willing to sit passively by, you're not waiting for others to take control of what needs to be solved. You have stepped up and decided you will be part of making it happen."
Today's high-energy event with members of The Atlanta University Center Consortium - the oldest and largest contiguous consortium of Black higher education institutions in the country - featured various student groups. This includes the Morehouse College "House of Funk" Marching Band, Mahogany and Motion Dance Team, Morehouse College Flag Team, and Divine Nine fraternities and sororities. Vice President Harris's "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour is a month-long national swing with visits to around a dozen campuses including Hispanic-serving institutions, community colleges, apprenticeship programs, state schools, and HBCUs. Following today's stop, she will travel to Florida International University in Miami, FL on Thursday and the University of Wisconsin-Madison on October 4.
See more about the energy at today's event: 
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution: "I'm @morehouse for today's visit by @KamalaHarris. Hundreds of Atlanta University Center students were lining up more than three hours before the VP is scheduled to speak. #gapol" 
Capital B News: "Kamala Harris, a Howard U grad, receives a chorus of cheers from AUC students as she takes the stage at Morehouse." 
WSB-TV: "Harris was greeted loudly inside Morehouse's King Chapel"
ABC Atlanta: "Before going into the King Chapel, Harris greeted students who couldn't get inside."
WABE News: "Morehouse College and the rest of the AUC prepare for the arrival of Vice President Harris who will speak today as part of the Fight For Our Freedoms College Tour."
AUCC: "The @VP is in the AUC just one of the stops on her #FightForOurFreedoms tour!"
Georgia Recorder: "It feels like a party at @Morehouse as the House of Funk Marching Band warms up the crowd for @VP Kamala Harris, who is set to participate in a moderated conversation about issues important to young voters. A narrow win in Georgia helped Harris and Biden win the White House."
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution: "The Vice President received a rousing welcome...the energy turned the event into part pep-rally, part dance-party"
Georgia Recorder: "The event was part politically rally, part pep rally as a capacity crowd danced to the Morehouse House of Funk Marching Bank and cheered step performers from campus Greek groups."
FOX 5 Atlanta: "There is much excitement at @Morehouse ahead of the @VP visit to talk about key issues with @AUC students. @FOX5Atlanta"
The Atlanta Journal-Constitution: "The vibe as students from the AUC await VP Kamala Harris"
  