
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

During the past decade, our Nation has seen increased awareness of the capabilities of workers with disabilities. We have demonstrated a greater commitment to the principle of equal employment opportunity for all Americans.
This awareness has led to actions by people with disabilities, by business, by organized labor, and by government at all levels to encourage the full integration of workers with disabilities into the American work force.
This cooperative and unified action has enabled people with disabilities to forge ahead—as leaders, as employers and employees, as team members, as vital members of American society. Medical and technological developments, coupled with new awareness of the capabilities of people with disabilities, can lead to greater and more fruitful participation of all Americans in our work force.
The first full week in October of each year is National Employ the Handicapped Week. During these seven days, we emphasize our recognition of the changing roles of people with disabilities in America today. Their aspirations and demonstrated ability to meet challenges and make the most of opportunities have resulted in changing the way the Nation thinks about handicaps and disabilities. Let us recognize through our actions, as well as our words, that people with disabilities are first of all our fellow citizens, who happen to be disabled.
The Congress, by Joint Resolution approved August 11, 1945, as amended (36 U.S.C. 155), has called for the designation of the first full week in October of each year as "National Employ the Handicapped Week." This special week is a time for all Americans to join together to renew their dedication to meeting the goal of full opportunities for disabled citizens.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 5, 1986, as National Employ the Handicapped Week. I urge all governors, mayors, other public officials, leaders in business and labor, and private citizens to help meet the challenge of insuring equal employment opportunities and full citizenship rights and privileges for people with disabilities.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-six, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eleventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  