
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate one individual as well as announced he has designated another individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Anita K. Blair, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Manpower and Reserve Affairs). Ms. Blair currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Total Force Transformation). Prior to this, she served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Military Personnel Policy). Earlier in her career, she served as President of the Independent Women's Forum. Ms. Blair received her bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan and her JD from the University of Virginia.
The President intends to nominate Michael W. Hager, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Human Resources and Management). Mr. Hager currently serves as Associate Administrator in the Office of Capital Access at the Small Business Administration. Prior to this, he served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources at the Freddie Mac Corporation. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Vice President of Human Resources for Bank One Corporation. Mr. Hager received his bachelor's degree from Bluefield State College.
The President intends to nominate Keith Hall, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics at the Department of Labor. Dr. Hall currently serves as Chief Economist at the Council of Economic Advisors. Prior to this, he served as Chief Economist at the Department of Commerce. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior International Economist in the Research Division in the Office of Economics at the U.S. International Trade Commission. Dr. Hall received his bachelor's degree from the University of Virginia. He received his master's degree and PhD from Purdue University.
The President intends to nominate Michael B. Mukasey, of New York, to be Attorney General. Judge Mukasey currently serves as a partner at Patterson, Belknap, Webb and Tyler, LLP. Prior to this, he served as Chief Judge of the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant U.S. Attorney in the Criminal Division of the Southern District. Judge Mukasey received his bachelor's degree from Columbia University and his LLB from Yale Law School.
The President has designated Peter D. Keisler, of Maryland, to be Acting Attorney General.
The President intends to designate David H. McCormick, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation (Department of the Treasury Representative).
  