
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 16
The President declared a major disaster in the U.S. Virgin Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement recovery efforts in areas struck by Hurricane Marilyn beginning on September 15.
The President declared a major disaster in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the areas struck by Hurricane Marilyn beginning on September 15.
September 18
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Philadelphia, PA. While en route on Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with NATO Secretary General Willy Claes to congratulate him on NATO's success in Bosnia. Following his arrival, he met with ministers and community leaders in the Mount Carmel Baptist Church.
In the evening, the President traveled to Jacksonville, FL.
The President announced his intention to nominate James C. Riley to be a Commissioner of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
September 19
In the evening, the President traveled to Denver, CO.
The President announced his intention to appoint M. Sharon Cassidy, Teresa Ghilarducci, and Joseph S. Perkins to be members of the Advisory Committee of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation.
September 20
In the evening, the President attended a Clinton/Gore fundraiser at the Marriott City Center. He then traveled to San Francisco, CA.
The White House announced the President named Stephanie S. Streett and Anne L. Walley as Deputy Assistants to the President and Directors of Scheduling.
The White House announced the President has appointed Jack Quinn as Assistant to the President and White House Counsel to replace Abner Mikva, who will retire November 1.
September 21
In the morning, the President met with a group of CEO's from the information industry to discuss goals for education technology.
In the afternoon, the President went to Culver City, CA.
In the evening, the President attended a Saxophone Club fundraiser at the House of Blues.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anthony Cecil Eden Quainton to be Director General of the Foreign Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eric James Boswell as Assistant Secretary of State for Diplomatic Security.
The President announced his intention to appoint Cecille Pulitzer to the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board.
The President announced his intention to name Ira L. Hobbs to the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
September 22
In the morning, the President went to Santa Ana, CA, where he addressed the community at the Boys and Girls Club of Santa Ana.
In the afternoon, the President went to San Diego, CA, where he addressed students at O'Farrell Community School.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC, arriving early in the morning.
  