
    WASHINGTON, DC- Today, President Obama nominated Jennifer A. Dorsey, Andrew Patrick Gordon, and Judge Michael J. McShane for District Court judgeships.
"I am honored to put forward these highly qualified candidates for the federal bench," President Obama said. "They will be distinguished public servants and valuable additions to the United States District Court."
Jennifer A. Dorsey: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of NevadaJennifer A. Dorsey has been a partner at the law firm of Kemp, Jones & Coulthard LLP in Las Vegas, Nevada since 2004, having joined the firm upon graduation from law school in 1997. Dorsey practices before both state and federal courts and handles a wide variety of matters including appeals, class actions, and complex commercial litigation. She received her J.D. cum laude in 1997 from the Pepperdine University School of Law and her B.A. cum laude in 1994 from the University of Nevada at Las Vegas.
Andrew Patrick Gordon: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Nevada
Andrew Patrick Gordon has been a partner with the law firm of McDonald Carano Wilson LLP since 1997, having joined the firm in 1994 as an associate. He worked at the law firm of Dawson and Associates from 1992 to 1994, and at the law firm of Streich Lang Weeks and Cardon from 1987 to 1992. Throughout his legal career, Gordon's practice has focused on civil litigation and alternative dispute resolution, with primary emphasis on complex commercial disputes. He also regularly serves as an arbitrator and mediator. Gordon received his J.D. in 1987 from Harvard Law School and his B.A. cum laude in 1984 from Claremont McKenna College.
Judge Michael J. McShane: Nominee for the United States District Court for the District of Oregon Judge Michael J. McShane has been a Judge on the Multnomah County Circuit Court in Oregon since 2001, where he has presided over a wide variety of matters, including civil, criminal, and family court cases. He previously served as a Judge Pro Tempore on the same court from 1997 to 2001. Prior to becoming a judge, he spent almost a decade serving as a public defender at the Office of the Metropolitan Public Defender in Portland, Oregon, where he represented indigent clients facing criminal prosecution. Judge McShane is the recipient of the 2012 Oregon State Bar President's Public Service Award. He received his J.D. with honors in 1988 from the Northwestern School of Law at Lewis and Clark College and his B.A. magna cum laude in 1983 from Gonzaga University.
  