
    "Senior Leadership Council" to Discuss Senator Clinton's pledge to protect healthcare, financial security for older Americans
MANCHESTER, NH - Following Senator Hillary Clinton's appearance at the national Life@50 AARP event and expo in Boston on Friday, the New Hampshire for Hillary Campaign today announced the members of its "Senior Leadership Council." This week, the NH for Hillary campaign will commence a series of "I'm Sweet on Hillary" visits to senior communities across the state.
The "Senior Leadership Council" includes former President the New Hampshire Association for the Elderly John Hoar of Concord; Mary Louise Hancock, 87, of Concord a former five-term state senator who President Jimmy Carter appointed to serve as a liaison between the Department of Housing and Urban Development for New England in 1979; Bill Cashin of Manchester who served as an Alderman for 32 years and secured funding for the William B. Cashin Senior Center in Manchester; third term State Representative Angie Kopka, 91, of Nashua; longtime Democratic activist and Democratic National Committeewoman Anita Freedman of Portsmouth; former member of the White House Council on Aging Dr. Steve Gorin of Canterbury; and former member of the Grafton County Senior Citizens Council Marion Copenhaven of Hanover.
The "I'm Sweet on Hillary" visits will be led by NH for Hillary staff and supporters to offer an opportunity for residents of senior centers and nursing home communities to discuss their concerns and learn about Hillary's experience that will bring about the change America's families need. The campaign will offer sugar-free cupcakes to participants at the discussion groups that have been scheduled in Concord, Nashua, Manchester, and Hampton. Additional events are being planned in other areas of the state.
The Council has begun actively reaching out to New Hampshire's older communities and advising Senator Clinton's campaign on the concerns and issues facing Granite State seniors. John Hoar, an outspoken advocate on health care, housing, and other issues affecting the community, said "Hillary Clinton is the best choice for us. She is a lifelong advocate who has worked to improve the quality of life for all Americans."
"I am honored to have such a strong and vibrant group of Granite Staters serving on my New Hampshire '˜Senior Leadership Council'," said Senator Clinton. "I will look to them to help share my plans with their friends and neighbors throughout the state."
Senator Clinton has a proven record of addressing issues facing America's seniors. When she is President, Senator Clinton has pledged that privatizing Social Security, raising the retirement age and cutting retirement benefits are off the table.
Hillary has worked to protect Social Security, repair Medicare Part D and address the mental health issues that often impact seniors. In addition, she has recognized the unique needs of caregivers and has worked to make quality respite care available and accessible to family caregivers, regardless of age or disability.
"Senator Clinton is the right candidate to tackle seniors' issues here in New Hampshire and across the country," said Marion Copenhaven, who served 28 years in the New Hampshire State House. "She is committed to repairing Medicare Part D and to preventing the privatization of Social Security."
New Hampshire is the seventh oldest state in the country, with 12.4 percent of its population age 65 and over. If current trends continue, New Hampshire will see a steady increase in the age group of 45 and above. At the same time the groups of those ages 44 and younger will decline.
"Hillary really cares about senior citizens in this country," added Anita Freedman, who also serves as Treasurer of the Rockingham County Democrats. "She will make sure America's older persons have the healthcare and financial security they deserve."
For more information on the scheduled events, please contact Kathleen Strand at (603) 782-4635 or visit the campaign's website at www.hillaryclinton.com/nh .
  