
    BURLINGTON, Vt. – U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders on Saturday begins a two-day swing through New Hampshire. A speech at the New Hampshire Democratic Party convention in Manchester kicks off the trip, which also includes stops in Goffstown, Seabrook, Portsmouth and Durham. The Democratic Party presidential candidate will discuss a wide range of issues, including income and wealth inequality, forthcoming criminal justice reform legislation, getting big money out of politics and his college affordability plan.
Here is the itinerary:
Saturday, September 19
Noon
New Hampshire Democratic Party Convention Address, Verizon Wireless Arena, 555 Elm Street, Manchester
Press interested in attending can request credentials here.
3 p.m.
Manchester Office Opening, Bernie 2016 Manchester Office, 835 Hanover Street, Manchester
Information for the public: The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
4:30 p.m.
Greater Manchester Town Meeting, Saint Anslem New Hampshire Institute of Politics, 100 Saint Anselm Drive, Goffstown
Information for the public: Doors open at 3:30 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
Sunday, September 20
12:30 p.m.
Seabrook Town Meeting, Seabrook Middle School, 256 Walton Road, Seabrook
Information for the public: Doors open at 11:30 a.m. The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
4 p.m.
Portsmouth Office Opening, Bernie 2016 Portsmouth Office 235 West Road, Suite 10, Portsmouth
Information for the public: Doors open at 3 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
6 p.m.
University of New Hampshire Town Meeting, University of New Hampshire, Field House, 145 Main Street, Durham
Information for the public: Doors open at 5 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
Press interested in attending should e-mail NHPressReg@berniesanders.com.
  