
    Pool Reports by Paris Huang, Voice of America 



Sent:
Reports:




September 9, 202213:15

Radio Pool-SG #1
Happy Friday! VOA is your radio pooler for Second Gentleman today. This afternoon, SGOTUS will have a virtual roundtable with youth leaders working to promote vaccinations in their communities.



September 9, 202215:12

Radio Pool-SG #2 vaccine event
Pool entered the South Court at 2:28PM
Second Gentleman and Dr. Ashish Jha walked in at 2:30PM and sat at the tables on the two sides of the stage. (see photo for staging)
5 young leaders at the center screen. Their bio is at the bottom of this pool report, provided by SGOTUS' office.
At 2:31PM Dr. Jha welcomed the young leaders, and introduced SG.
SG talked about his own children and stressed the importance of vaccination. He said he has spoken to people all over the country on vaccination, VP has visited numerous vaccine sites, attend COVID meetings to advocate vaccines. But today he wants to hear from the young leaders, about updates on vaccination help to lower risk to get or spread COVID, prevent from death and serious illness. He encourages anyone 12 or older, or last shot was 2 months ago to get the new updated vaccine.
He said people will be getting COVID shots every year just like the flu shot. It's free, effective, and easy to get. He encourages people to go on to Vaccines.gov for information, and more appointments for the new vaccine will come everyday.
Dr. Jha then thank the young people's efforts for vaccination the community. He stressed the current vaccine was built 2 years ago, but the virus has changed, and this new vaccine will be useful.
SG then invited the young leaders to speak. They spoke in the order of :Braxton SimptonCiboney Regloa - helped Pilipino Americans getting COVID resoucesEmily Paras - stressed health equity in USSaanvi AroraChynna Lloyd
Please check the audio file for details of their comments.
Pool then ushered out at 2:45PM after Chynna Llyod finished talking and SG started to ask them questions.
Audio file is uploaded to Box.
Here are their biographies
BIOGRAPHIES:Ciboney Reglos (SEE-boh-nay REG-los) (she/her)Ciboney Reglos (she/her/hers) is a junior majoring in Global Health with minors in Health Policy and Southeast Asian Studies at the University of Wisconsin - Madison. Currently, she holds positions on campus as the Vice President of the Filipinx American Student Org (FASO), the Operations Intern for the UW Social Justice Hub, and a Health Policy team member for Amnesty at UW. Her experience as a Filipina working in healthcare has given her insight as to not only understanding the health disparities that exist within her own community but how those health inequities present in a clinical setting. In the future, she is considering the opportunity to pursue a Master of Public Health as a stepping stone to her career aspirations. By embracing the intersectionality of her ethnic identity and role in public health, she hopes to create a community for those who have often been underserved in healthcare.
Emily Paras (EH-mih-lee PAH-ross) (she/her)Emily Paras (she/her/hers) is currently a sophomore at the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. She is working towards a bachelor's degree in public health sciences and is a strong advocate for health equity, mental health awareness, and Filipinx/a/o representation in science. She was selected as one of nine Summer 2022 Fellows for Tayo Help Desk, where she helped support ongoing operations for the Filipinx/a/o community, worked on misinformation tracking, and managed vaccine clinics. As the current Media Chair for the Filipino American Student Association and Co-Director of Education for Michigan Health Aid, she constantly pursues her interests in the intersectionality between culture and health. In addition to being a full-time student, Emily competes on behalf of the University of Michigan Figure Skating Club and coaches skaters of all ages and levels. She loves to read, discover new music, and listen to NPR's Hidden Brain podcast in her spare time.
Chynna Lloyd (China Loid) (she/her) Chynna Lloyd is 24 and based in Los Angeles where she serves as the West Program Coordinator for Young Invincibles. She recently graduated from California State University, Northridge with a bachelor's degree in Public Health with a minor in Civic and Community Engagement. Chynna is passionate about racial and health equity in low-income communities. Chynna has recently gotten back from studying abroad in Accra, Ghana for a whole year. In Ghana, she was able to study and learn public health from a different perspective, mentor young school girls and create a school curriculum. She previously coordinated a mentorship program, called WISDOM, that was geared towards helping the retention rate of Black female students at CSUN. She was also a participant in the 2017 young advocates cohort where she was able to learn organizing skills and how to be a better advocate in her community.
Braxton Simpson (Brax-ton Simp-son)(she/her)Braxton Simpson is a native of Atlanta, Georgia is a 2021 Graduate of Tennessee State University, where she obtained degrees in both Agricultural Sciences and Political Science. After graduating, Braxton was recently appointed to the Futuristic Agricultural College Committee and as an advocate for Historically Black Colleges & Universities. Most recently, Braxton has started her Masters in Business Administration at North Carolina Central University. In addition to her love for HBCUs, Braxton is forever indebted to her beloved Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. in which she has served as a chapter president, the National Chair for the 2020 HBCU Vote Initiative, an International Leadership Fellow, and a member of the International Membership Intake Process Committee., Braxton is pursuing a career in Agricultural Marketing for a Fortune 100 Company in which she focuses intently on project management, content creation, process improvement, and strategic planning. Braxton is also the CEO of Braxton Simpson Enterprises, in which focuses on social media management, business-marketing campaigns, speech writing, digital media, and career services. She is also the co-founder of HBCULinx–a relationship building platform tailored to HBCU Love & Connections.
Saanvi Arora ("Saw"-n-"vee" Aurora)(she/her) Saanvi Arora is an avid public health/education policy activist and a first-year student at UC Berkeley. Her passion for education policy reform began when she was 12 and visited developing schools in rural parts of India, which allowed her to recognize the importance of ample support for students and the need for more tangible policy changes both in India and across the Pacific in her hometown of Cupertino. Since then, Saanvi has worked on numerous election-related and student-led campaigns that range from mental health advocacy to public health reform, including federal initiatives for financial equity in higher education and statewide projects focused on normalizing mental health struggles within the public education system. She's continued her advocacy efforts as Chief Partnerships Officer for GENup, which works with local, state, and federal governments to pass initiatives advancing student welfare. She's continued her public health research to focus specifically on vaccine access, and remains committed towards educating students and dispelling misinformation about vaccines in schools.
This concludes my SGOTUS pool duty today. My pleasure to serve you.




  