
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Shana L. Dale, of Georgia, to be Deputy Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Ms. Dale currently serves as the Deputy Director for Homeland and National Security at the United States Office of Science and Technology Policy. She previously served as the Chief of Staff and General Counsel at OSTP. Prior to that, she served as Assistant Vice Chancellor for Federal Relations for the University of Texas System. Earlier in her career, Ms. Dale served as Staff Director for the Space and Aeronautics Subcommittee of the House Committee on Science. Additionally, she served as Republican Counsel for both the Space and Science Subcommittees of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology. She received her bachelor's degree from the University of Tulsa and her JD from California Western School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Donald A. Gambatesa, of Virginia, to be Inspector General of the United States Agency for International Development. Mr. Gambatesa currently serves as Deputy Director for the United States Marshals Service at the Department of Justice. Prior to that, he served as Special Agent in Charge for the United States Agency for International Development, Office of the Inspector General. Earlier in his career, Mr. Gambatesa served for 24 years in the United States Secret Service. He received his bachelor's degree from John Carroll University.
The President intends to nominate Carmen M. Martinez, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zambia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, she recently completed service as the designated Chief of Mission for the United States Embassy in Rangoon, Burma. Prior to that, she served as Principal Officer for the United States Consulate General in Sao Paulo, Brazil. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Maputo, Mozambique and Principal Officer in Barranquilla, Colombia. Ms. Martinez received her bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of West Florida. She also received a master's degree from the National Defense University.
  