
    Key Officials Across Illinois Announce Support for Kamala Harris in Key March Primary State
On the heels of last week's commanding debate performance, leaders across Illinois are endorsing Senator Kamala Harris' for president. This group of officials will also make up the campaign's Illinois Leadership Council. They will serve as in-state leadership for the campaign and help identify and recruit supporters throughout the state, aid with grassroots events and organizations, and assist with the delegate selection and ballot access process. Illinois will hold its primary on March 17, 2020 and award over 150 delegates in the 2020 Democratic primary.
State Senator Ram Villivalam and State Representative Bob Morgan will also advise the campaign on South Asian and Jewish outreach respectively.
The Leadership Council join Congressman and state chair Bobby Rush and Congressman Danny Davis in their support for Senator Harris.
Members of the Leadership Council include:

Anna Valencia, City Clerk, City of Chicago
Donna Miller, Cook County Commissioner
Bob Morgan, State Representative – 58th District
Ram Villivalam, State Senator – 8th District
Bobby Rush, U.S. House of Representatives - 1st District
Danny Davis, U.S. House of Representatives – 7th District
Valerie Alexander, Former Chief of Staff U.S. Senator Dick Durbin
Mike Kreloff, Attorney & Northfield Township Democratic Committeeperson, Emeritus
John West, Small Business Owner & LGBTQ Activist
Mattie Hunter, State Senator – 3rd District
Nikki Budzinski, Senior Advisor, Governor Pritzker
Jennifer Camille Lee,Co-President Illinois Democratic Women
Arielle Maffei, President Young Democrats of Illinois
Deb Conroy, State Representative - 46th District
Nancy Rotering, Mayor - Highland Park

"At a time when the current structure has systematically oppressed generation after generation, we need a candidate that puts equitable reform at the top of their agenda," said City Clerk Valencia. "As the link between Chicago's residents and their government, I know firsthand the importance of having an elected official who not only fights on behalf of those that they serve but whose life experiences match their own. Whether as District Attorney, Attorney General, or United States Senator, Kamala has done just that: fight for the people. That's why I am proud to support her candidacy."
Anna Valencia currently serves as City Clerk of Chicago. The Chicago City Clerk oversees the 50 member City Council and is the largest office in the City serving 1.3 million residents every year. Prior to becoming City Clerk, Valencia served as the second woman and first Latina to run Mayor Emanuel's Legislative Counsel and Government Affairs. Throughout her career, Valencia has been an outspoken advocate on police reform and government accessibility issues.
"I'm proud to endorse Kamala Harris' historic candidacy for president," said Commissioner Miller. "As a fellow graduate of Howard University, I know Kamala will prioritize investing in HBCUs and close the racial homeownership gap. She has laid out an agenda focused on the issues that keeps Americans up at night, from access to affordable healthcare to raising teacher pay. She is the champion that all Americans, and the people of the South Suburbs, deserve in the White House."
Donna Miller serves as the Cook County Commissioner. With 25 years of healthcare experience and a Board Chair member of Planned Parenthood, Miller has fought to ensure services are accessible to people who need them. She has been committed to bringing a voice to the South Suburbs of Chicago.
  