
    Governor Mitt Romney
CNBC's "Street Signs"
September 7, 2007
Governor Mitt Romney: "But I do believe that you have to have somebody who has experience leading and managing and guiding a large institution. I spent my life, first of all, in the private sector. I'm not a life-long politician. Then I became involved in the Olympics and helped run those Games and turned them around and then I went to Massachusetts as a Governor and helped lead a large entity there. And I think you need to have that experience in leadership and management if you're going to manage the largest enterprise in the world through some very difficult times. And frankly, it would be helpful to have people who understand how the economy works. How jobs are created and how jobs are lost.
"I think I'm the only guy - I may be wrong here - but I think I'm the only guy on either side of the aisle running for president who has extensive life experience in the private sector, and we're going to have to have a strong economy and job growth in this country if we're going to remain the superpower of the world."
Wall Street Journal's John Harwood: "And, Governor, what's the policy difference, though, that people can look at and say, he's on the right track, the others are not?"
Governor Romney: "Well, a couple of things. We talked about immigration the other night and there's a big difference between us there. I think Mayor Giuliani and Senator McCain are wrong in saying that all those that have come here illegally, unless they committed a crime, should be able to stay. I think that's a mistake.
"But there are other places of difference. One is my tax plan. I believe that middle-income Americans, and that's $200,000 and less per household, should be able to save their money, tax-free. I think we should encourage the development of a savings mentality in this country among our citizens that allows people to be able to buy homes with a good down payment that they save money for and pay for college. These kinds of incentives for saving is something, are something that I think distinguishes us."
To watch the video, please see below:

  
  
  

  