
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 22
The President announced his intention to appoint Peter Lucas to be a member of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
The President nominated former Tennessee Senator Jim Sasser as Ambassador to the People's Republic of China.
September 24
In the morning, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Scranton, PA. They returned to Washington, DC, in the evening.
September 26
In the morning, the President had a working visit with President Ion Iliescu of Romania.
The President announced his intention to nominate John N. Erlenborn to the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jill L. Long Thompson as a Department of Agriculture Federal Representative to the Rural Telephone Bank Board.
September 27
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia.
The President announced that he has named the following individuals to the President's Oklahoma City Scholarship Fund Advisory Board:
—George Nigh, Chair;
—Henry Bellmon;
—Michael Enoch;
—Melvin Hall;
—W.R. Howell;
—Lou C. Kerr;
—Martha King;
—Ruth Leebron Levenson;
—Ronald J. Norick;
—M. Susan Savage;
—James Lee Witt; and
—Stanton Young.
September 28
The President announced his intention to appoint Burton P. Resnick to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
September 29
In the late morning, the President had meetings with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt and King Hussein I of Jordan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Laveeda Morgan Battle as a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Suleyman Demirel of Turkey to Washington, DC, for a working visit on October 18.
The White House announced that the President, at the invitation of King Juan Carlos I of Spain, will visit Madrid to attend the United States-European Union summit on December 3.
  