
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Reno tonight and Las Vegas tomorrow, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Nevada families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Nevada the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program protected 500,000 Nevada jobs by providing more than $4.2 billion worth of loans to over 45,000 Nevada businesses.
Nearly 1.6 million Nevadans received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $2.6 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing up to $1.25 billion worth of aid to the state and over $241 million in relief to 2,581 health care providers in the state.

Nevada businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Nevada workers and businesses.
In the last 3 months, Nevada added 142,100 jobs back following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus.
Nevada added more than 104,500 new jobs in the first three years of the Trump Administration, including 14,300 new manufacturing jobs.
Before China unleashed the coronavirus on the world, Nevada's unemployment rate had fallen to just 3.6%. The state's average unemployment rate during the Obama-Biden administration was 9.8%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to add over 11,000 new Nevada jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 61 Nevada communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Nevada's economy:

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Nevada's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports more than $1.8 billion annually in goods to Canada and Mexico.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports more than 107,000 jobs in Nevada, including 1,500 manufacturing jobs.
President Trump is defending Nevada farmers and agriculture producers from China by providing more than $4.2 million in direct USDA payments to Nevada farmers.

But Joe Biden's radical, far-left agenda will decimate Nevada workers and families:

The terrible trade deals that Biden supported during his 44 years as a career politician in Washington killed Nevada jobs.

Nevada lost 3,700 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden supported.
Biden voted to normalized trade relations with China, which killed 15,900 Nevada jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies and promise to "end fossil fuel" would devastate Nevada workers and businesses.

The oil, gas, and coal industries support nearly 48,000 jobs in Nevada and contribute $4.3 billion to the state's economy annually.
60% of Nevada's homes are heated by natural gas, fuel oil, or propane, fuels that Biden wants to eliminate.
In Nevada, the Trump Administration has opened 1.8 million acres of public land for oil and gas leasing. Biden would shut it down.


Biden's plans endanger the private health insurance that over 1.6 million Nevadans rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 8 of Nevada's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.


Joe Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. Over 45,000 students are enrolled in 72 charter schools across Nevada, making up over 10% of total public schools in the state.

  