
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Kenneth C. Frazier – Member, President's Export Council
•      Andrés R. Gluski – Member, President's Export Council
•      Marillyn A. Hewson – Member, President's Export Council
•      Vanessa Keitges – Member, President's Export Council
•      Ian C. Read – Member, President's Export Council
•      Virginia M. Rometty – Member, President's Export Council
•      Arne M. Sorenson – Member, President's Export Council
President Obama said, "I am proud that such experienced individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles and I look forward to working with them to boost exports, increase competitiveness, and help our businesses grow. As we recover from the worst economic crisis of our lifetimes, our top priority must be rebuilding an economy where everyone who works hard can get ahead and I'm confident these well qualified individuals will help us do just that."
President Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Kenneth C. Frazier, Appointee for Member, President's Export Council
Kenneth C. Frazier has been President of Merck & Co., Inc. since 2010 and in 2011, he became CEO and Chairman of the Board. Since joining Merck & Co., Inc. in 1992, he has held a number of positions, including President of Global Human Health, Vice President and General Counsel. Previously, he was a partner with the law firm of Drinker Biddle & Reath in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He serves on the boards of PhRMA, Weill Cornell Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Exxon Mobil Corporation, and the The Pennsylvania State University. He is a member of The Business Council, the Council on Foreign Relations, and the American Bar Association. Mr. Frazier received a B.A. from The Pennsylvania State University and a J.D. from Harvard Law School.
Andrés R. Gluski, Appointee for Member, President's Export Council
Andrés R. Gluski is President and CEO of the AES Corporation, a position he has held since 2011. Since joining AES Corporation in 2000, he has also held a number of positions, including Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, and CEO of AES Gener in Chile and La Electricidad de Caracas in Venezuela. He previously worked for the International Monetary Fund and was Director General of Public Finance for the Ministry of Finance of Venezuela. He serves on the board of directors of AES, Cliffs Natural Resources, the Council of the Americas, the United States – Spain Council, the U.S. – Brazil CEO Forum, and Edison Electric Institute. In 2012, he was named International CEO of the Year by Latin Trade Magazine. Mr. Gluski received a B.A. from Wake Forest University, and an M.A. and Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Virginia.
Marillyn A. Hewson, Appointee for Member, President's Export Council
Marillyn A. Hewson is President and CEO of Lockheed Martin Corporation, a position she has held since January 2013. Since joining Lockheed Martin Corporation in 1982, she has held a number of positions, including President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President of Lockheed Martin's Electronic Systems business area, and Corporate Vice President of Global Supply Chain Management. She serves on the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, DuPont, and the USO Board of Governors. She is a Member of the Board of Visitors of the Culverhouse College of Commerce and Business Administration at the University of Alabama and the Congressional Medal of Honor Foundation. She is a former board member of the Sandia Corporation and Carpenter Technology Corporation. Ms. Hewson received a B.S. in Business Administration and an M.A. in Economics from The University of Alabama.
Vanessa Keitges, Appointee for Member, President's Export Council
Vanessa Keitges is President and CEO of Columbia Green Technologies, a position she has held since 2008. From 2005 to 2007, she was Sales Director at Site9 in Portland, Oregon. Ms. Keitges held various positions at VoteHere Ltd., including European Business Development Manager. She currently serves on the Oregon Zoo Wildlife Board. Ms. Keitges received a B.A. in Philosophy from Oregon State University.
Ian C. Read, Appointee for Member, President's Export Council
Ian C. Read is Chairman and CEO of Pfizer, a position he has held since 2010. Since joining Pfizer in 1978, he has held a number of positions, including Senior Vice President and Group President of Worldwide Biopharmaceutical Businesses, and Executive Vice President of Pfizer's International Pharmaceuticals Group, with responsibility for Europe, Latin America, Africa & the Middle East, and Canada. Mr. Read serves on the boards of PhRMA, Kimberly-Clark, and the Partnership for New York City. He received a B.Sc. in Chemical Engineering from London University Imperial College.
Virginia M. Rometty, Appointee for Member, President's Export Council
Virginia M. Rometty is Chairman, President, and CEO of IBM. She first joined IBM in 1981, and has previously held positions as Senior Vice President and Group Executive of IBM Sales, Marketing and Strategy, and Senior Vice President of IBM Global Business Services. She serves on the Council on Foreign Relations, the Board of Trustees of Northwestern University, and the Board of Overseers and Board of Managers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. In 2006, she received the Carl Sloane Award from the Association of Management Consulting Firms. Ms. Rometty received a B.S. from Northwestern University.
Arne M. Sorenson, Appointee for Member, President's Export Council
Arne M. Sorenson is President and CEO of Marriott International, Inc., a position he has held since 2012. Since joining Marriott International, Inc. in 1996, he has held a number of positions, including President and Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and Senior Vice President of Business Development. Previously, he was a partner with the law firm Latham & Watkins in Washington, D.C. He is a member of the Luther College Board of Regents, and serves on the boards of Brand USA, the World Travel and Tourism Council, and the Bishops Advisory Council. Mr. Sorenson received a B.A. from Luther College and a J.D. from the University of Minnesota Law School.
  