
    Pool Reports by Linh Tat, Los Angeles Daily News 



Sent:
Reports:




September 16, 202215:28 PDT

FLOTUS Pool Report: DNC Event in Los Angeles
Good afternoon,
Passing along a pool report on the First Lady's remarks at a private fundraiser luncheon today for the Democratic National Committee, at the home of Friends co-creator Marta Kauffman.
The first lady arrived at 12:49 p.m. PST, wearing a pink dress with floral print and pink heels.
She was introduced by Kauffman.
"Our system of education is sick. It has a disease. So who do you call when you have a disease? The doctor. Ladies and gentlemen, the first lady Dr. Jill Biden," Kauffman said.
In her roughly 10-minute speech, Dr. Biden said Americans want good schools, job opportunities, modern infrastructure, affordable healthcare and safe neighborhoods.
She said the vast majority of Americans want affordable prescription drugs, but that "Democrats are the only ones fighting for it."
Similarly, she said Americans say they want big corporations to pay their fair share of taxes and to invest in clean energy, "but not a single Republican voted for any of that."
"These aren't controversial issues, for heaven's sakes," she said. "They aren't partisan, and that's why the extremists refuse to support them. They're putting political ploys, you know, play before the people that they represent, and they're letting down all Americans, including the millions of Republicans, really."
Dr. Biden, who began her remarks by noting that her parents were Republicans, said "Republicans aren't like bad people."
"I mean, my father was a good person ... and the average Republican -- I don't think they can understand what's happening either," she said, referencing the bipartisan politics in Washington.
She then urged those in attendance to "work harder" to ensure that Democrats are elected to Congress, saying that with a "couple more partners in the House and in the Senate," the Biden administration could restore women's reproductive rights, protect Social Security, ban assault weapons, preserve marriage equality and make schools stronger.
"I knew that Joe was going to be the -- the -- education president because he's (been) with me for 45 years," the first lady, who is also a community college professor, said.
She also offered this remark about the midterm elections: "It's not enough to just get angry. We have to get out and get to work, and I think, especially with these elections. ... We can do this, I mean, especially if we can get women to see what rights are being taken away, and that we absolutely have to get out there and work harder."
The first lady finished speaking at 1:01 p.m. but remained to speak with the guests. She was still there when this pool reporter was escorted out at 1:27 p.m.
This will be the only pool note for this event.



September 16, 202216:57 PDT

FLOTUS Pool Report: Homeboy in Los Angeles
Good afternoon, sending along this pool report from the First Lady's visit to Homeboy Industries and Homegirl Cafe in Los Angeles, Calif. on Friday, Sept. 16.
LAPD bomb-sniffing dogs made their way through the press ranks outside of Homeboy Industries about 12:35 p.m. Pacific time. All was clear.
L.A. Mayor Eric Garcetti and L.A. County Board of Supervisor Hilda L. Solis chatted with one another outside about 12:50, awaiting the arrival of FLOTUS.
FLOTUS entered through the back door of the bakery plant, where all the goods from Homegirl Cafe are made, at about 2 p.m. She was wearing a pink and green dress.
After shaking hands with Father Gregory Boyle -- founder of Homeboy Industries -- as well as Garcetti and Solis, FLOTUS greeted everyone else.
"Hello, everybody, how are you?" she said. "Nice to see you."
FLOTUS walked over to where a group of men enrolled in Homeboy Industries were preparing pastries for baking. After chatting up one guy for a couple of minutes, she walked over to where a group of women were putting the finishing touches on pastry items by decorating them.
The group, which included about 15 media reporters and photographers, moved into the main cafe area that is right next to the kitchen. FLOTUS sat with Father Boyle, Mayor Garcetti, Supervisor Solis, Homeboy Industries enrollee Johanna Carbajal and senior staff member Eugene Walker.
Carbajal told FLOTUS that she got pregnant at the age of 15, also that she began her education by going to community college ahead of attending and graduating from UCLA. That seemed to excite FLOTUS.
"That's where I teach, community college," FLOTUS said.
Carbajal informed FLOTUS that she also studied abroad and now she is going to be going to law school. Again, FLOTUS seemed thrilled.
"We're so proud of you, aren't we?" FLOTUS said.
FLOTUS listened intently as Walker told her about having been in prison, and what Homeboy Industries has meant to him. He talked about how the organization builds relationships, that they are a big part of the success of Homeboy Industries. He mentioned trust. FLOTUS responded.
"That trust, yeah," FLOTUS said.
FLOTUS seemed very impressed, on the whole.
"I've heard so much about this place from my husband, from my son," FLOTUS said.
In between her back-and-forths with Carbajal and Walker, FLOTUS also asked questions of Father Boyle relating to how the organization got started.
The visit ended at 2:30 p.m., about 30 minutes after it started.
Background on Homeboy Industries
Homeboy Industries is the largest gang intervention, rehabilitation, and re-entry program in the world. Each year, over 12,000 former gang members from across the city come through its doors in an effort to make positive change. Homeboy Industries' flagship 18-month employment and re-entry program serves over 450 people – or "trainees" – each year, providing job training through its social enterprises and other workforce programs, as well as healing and free wraparound services.
Homeboy Bakery: A bakery that serves as a training facility for aspiring bakers and business managers. This site also supplies products for Homeboy Farmers Markets, Homeboy Diner, Homeboy Catering, and other restaurants and cafes around Los Angeles through its Homeboy Bakery Wholesale business. The bakery is best known for its fresh bread, but has also made cakes, rolls, Danishes, muffins, scones, pies, pretzels, cookies, and more. This site was the first "social enterprise" for Homeboy Industries, and is marking its 30th anniversary this year.
Homegirl Cafe: A cafe that sells food and coffee and aims to be a safe space for staff, many of whom experienced domestic violence and single parenthood, as well as gang involvement and incarceration.
Biden-Harris Administration Support
The Biden-Harris Administration supports Homeboy Industries’ workforce efforts through two core grants from the U.S. Department of Labor:
A $2 million Growth Opportunities Grant. Growth Opportunities grants support programs that provide job training and supportive services to justice-involved young people. This program contributes to the Biden-Harris Administration’s comprehensive strategy to combat gun violence and other violent crime, in part, with preventative measures that are proven to reduce violent crime and support public safety and community well-being.
A $1.5 million Reentry Employment Opportunities grant. Reentry Employment Opportunities grants support projects that provide workforce services for justice-involved youth, young adults, and formerly incarcerated adults. The goal of these grants is to develop strategies and partnerships that facilitate the implementation of successful programs at the state and local levels that will improve the workforce outcomes for this population.
Last April, during Second Chance Month, the Biden-Harris Administration released a comprehensive strategy that expands Incarceration to Employment opportunities, and a White House Fact Sheet which outlines as a series of policy actions as part of a whole-of-government effort to advance employment, bolster reentry, empower formerly incarcerated persons, and strengthen our communities and our economy.




  