
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for Senate advice and consent to ratification, the Protocols for the Fifth Extension of the Wheat Trade Convention (WTC) and Food Aid Convention (FAC) constituting the International Wheat Agreement, 1971. The Protocols were adopted by a conference which met in London on March 2122, 1979 and were open for signature in Washington from April 25 through May 16, 1979.
I transmit also, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Secretary of State with respect to the Protocols.
The WTC Protocol extends that Convention until .June 30, 1981, maintains the framework for international cooperation in wheat trade matters, and continues the existence of the International Wheat Council.
The FAC Protocol extends until June 30, 1981, the parties' commitments to provide minimum annual quantities of food aid to developing countries.
Declarations of Provisional Application of both Protocols were deposited by the United States on July 15, 1979, thus permitting the United States to continue full and active participation in the International Wheat Council and Food Aid Committee. This step was necessary to reduce the risk of expiration of the International Wheat Agreement. The WTC Protocol requires deposit of instruments of ratification or declarations of provisional application by June 22, 1979, on behalf of governments of wheat-exporting member nations holding at least 60 percent of the exporter votes and on behalf of importing member nations holding at least 50 percent of importer votes for the extension to enter into force on July 1, 1979. The FAC Protocol requires entry into force of the WTC Protocol and deposit of instruments of ratification or provisional application by all Parties by June 22.
I hope that the Senate will give early and favorable consideration to the two Protocols so that ratification by the United States can be effected at an early date. Doing so will demonstrate our continued commitment to cooperation on international wheat trade matters and to providing food aid to needy developing nations.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 11, 1979.
  