
    Pool Reports below by Chanel Rion, One America News



Sent:
Reports:




 September 3, 2020 14:06

 FLOTUS Pool Report #1 
First Lady Melania Trump hosts a "Recovery at Work: Celebrating Connections" Roundtable.
Scheduled for 2pm EST. Awaiting First Lady's arrival at 2:05pm EST.
22 individuals seated at round table. More complete list of those in attendance to follow.
Members of the Administration present include:- Larry Kudlow- Surgeon General Jerome Adams
First Lady's office confirms all participants in today's Roundtable have been tested for COVID. 


 September 3, 2020 14:12

FLOTUS Pool Report #2 
Director James W Carroll introduces First Lady:
Emphasizes the Bipartisan nature of the war on addiction and drugs, praise for the First Lady's dedication to educating America's children on the dangers of addiction.
"This issue has come to the front because of the work the First Lady has done."
Carroll emphasizes the First Lady's relentless dedication to help those suffering from substance abuse disorder... "she has challenged the norm, challenged the way in which we discuss the drug addiction crisis in this country."
FLOTUS enters room at 2:10pm EST. 


 September 3, 2020 14:31

FLOTUS Pool Report #3 
FLOTUS thanks Director Carroll and White House Team for their efforts in the fight against addiction and in the efforts to help Americans recover from addiction.
FLOTUS Excerpt: "The coronavirus pandemic has increased feelings of loneliness and sadness. For vulnerable populations, it has also increased the risk of substance abuse. But the American people are strong and always set-up to help one another in times of need. My husband and this Administration are also committed to making sure no one is left behind and the forgotten man and woman are forgotten no more."
FLOTUS Concludes remarks at 2:14pm EST
2:15pm EST, prayer is delivered:- We pray for those who are in or are working toward recovery. [...] we are the face of recovery and healing [...] equip us with the will and the guidance to continue in this work.
2:17pm EST - Director Carroll:- Praises Larry Kudlow for his role in the initiative; lauds Kudlow's 25th anniversary in recovery.
KUDLOW delivers his remarks - speech is slow, measured, deliberate:
Thanks the administration for its work in this field, and for their belief in him.
"I was a hopeless abuser of alcohol... I had tried 7 times to get sober.... I was unemployable, by the grace of God, I stayed married... the whole story was difficult. It is because of my stubbornness... that I had to learn to change my behavior, following simple steps and guidelines, was the best thing that could have happened."
"The President has been remarkable... I was brought into this position, I didn't ask for it."
"Loneliness and sadness is nothing as bad as trying to do good but you can't. And for me, I will paraphrase from AA, it became clearer and clearer to me that I was a hopeless alcoholic... and it became clear to me that it would take a higher power."
"I had to acknowledge my frailties. To this day, I don't make a single significant decision alone. Because I have a track record of making bad ones. Instead I go to my friends, it has worked for me.... and today, I am here."
"There isn't a day that goes by that I don't think about my alcoholism. There isn't a day that goes by I don't read my meditations and my serenity prayers... not a day that goes by I don't reach out to my AA buddies... I'm blessed. I discovered God, a higher power, 12 step program, I am lucky but I am blessed."
"My worst day now is better than any day" as an alcoholic.
2:29PM EST:Kudlow closes statement with a quote from AA - Roundtable helps him finish the statement in unison. 


 September 3, 2020 14:43

FLOTUS Pool Report #4 
First Lady Melania Trump hosts a "Recovery at Work: Celebrating Connections" Roundtable.
US Surgeon General Jerome Adams addresses Roundtable 2:31pm EST.
- Thanks the First Lady, jokes that he never expected two of his closest friends at the White House would be two "old white guys" - referring to Director Carroll and Mr. Kudlow.
- September is National Recovery Month.
- Sustained support, individual connections are powerful tools in helping individuals overcome addiction and maintain recovery.
- What's good for health is good for business
Stands to demonstrate to FLOTUS one time use nasal spray of Naloxone.
BACKGROUND on Naloxone: Naloxone is a life saving drug referred often as the "overdose antidote." Can be given to anyone overdosing on opioid drugs or heroin to reverse the effects of fatal overdose.
2:41pm EST - Adams concludes his statements. 


 September 3, 2020 14:51

FLOTUS Pool Report #5 
First Lady Melania Trump hosts a "Recovery at Work: Celebrating Connections" Roundtable.
2:42pm EST - First Lady of North Dakota Kathryn Helgaas Burgum
- Shares personal story of addiction and recovery.
- On battling the stigma of discussing addiction and recovery, Bergum focused on corporate America and businesses via Chamber of Commerce.
- As ND First Lady, Bergum worked to encourage businesses and Corporate America to create "Recovery Friendly Workplaces"
- 2 most impactful recommendations to building Recovery Friendly Workplaces: 1) encourage collaborations between corporations and recovery programs. 2) Help corporations and business leaders talk about recovery; remove the stigma of the discussion.
Concludes statements 2:48pm EST 


 September 3, 2020 14:57

FLOTUS Pool Report #6 
First Lady Melania Trump hosts a "Recovery at Work: Celebrating Connections" Roundtable.
2:51pm ESTPatty McCarthy, CEO of Faces and Voices of Recoveryhttps://facesandvoicesofrecovery.org/blog/people/patty-mccarthy-metcalf/
- Discusses the need to openly address and remove the stigma of recovery and addiction in local communities, in children, and across America.- "People on recovery are part of the solution"
McCarthy concludes at 2:55pm
Director Carroll readies to dismiss FLOTUS for her next engagement, but FLOTUS announces she has changed her schedule.
- "I have read the biographies of everyone here, and I would like to stay and listen." 



  