
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 20
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Palo Alto, CA, to San Francisco, CA. In the evening, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
September 21
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to New York, NY. In the evening, they attended a reception for the 52d Session of the U.N. General Assembly in the Starlight Room of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel.
September 22
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif of Pakistan in the 12th Floor Conference Room at the United Nations. Later, he met with Prime Minister Inder Kumar Gujral of India in Room 35 H at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a performance of "Carmen" at the Metropolitan Opera House. Later, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The President announced the nomination of former Governor Richard Frank Celeste of Ohio to be Ambassador to India.
September 23
The President announced his intention to nominate Stanford G. Ross to serve as a member of the Social Security Advisory Board. Upon his confirmation as a member by the Senate, the President intends to designate Mr. Ross as Chair of the Board.
The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding August 20-21.
September 24
In the morning, the President traveled to Pittsburgh, PA, and in the afternoon, he traveled to Little Rock, AR.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph B. Dial to be a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara Holum to be a member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Shaun E. Donnelly to be Ambassador to Sri Lanka and Maldives.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward S. Walker, Jr., to be Ambassador to Israel.
The President named James M. Lyons to be Special Adviser to the President and to the Secretary of State for Economic Initiatives for Ireland.
September 25
The President announced his intention to nominate Arthur Bienenstock to be Associate Director for Science at the Office of Science and Technology Policy.
The President announced his intention to nominate James E. Hall to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate James Carew Rosapepe to be Ambassador to Romania.
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter F. Tufo to be Ambassador to Hungary.
The President announced his intention to nominate David W. Wilcox to be Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy at the Treasury Department.
September 26
In the morning, the President traveled to Houston, TX, arriving in the afternoon. In the evening, he returned to Little Rock, AR.
The White House announced that the President named the 1997 recipients of the National Medal of Arts and the National Humanities Medal. The Medal of Arts recipients are: Louise Bourgeois, Betty Carter, Agnes Gund, Daniel Urban Kiley, Angela Lansbury, James Levine, Tito Puente, Jason Robards, Edward Villella, Doc Watson, MacDowell Colony, and Jane Alexander. The National Humanities Medal recipients are: Nina M. Archabal, David A. Berry, Richard J. Franke, William Friday, Don Henley, Maxine Hong Kingston, Luis Leal, Martin E. Marty, Paul Mellon, and Studs Terkel. The President and Hillary Clinton will present the awards on September 29 at the White House.
  