
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Puerto Rico Steering Committee Co-Chairs. The committee will be chaired by Republican National Committeewoman Zoraida Fonalledas and former Puerto Rico Attorney General Jose Fuentes-Agostini. These leaders will help Governor Romney organize grassroots efforts on the island and in mainland Puerto Rican communities, as well as communicate his message of conservative change in Washington.
In announcing the Puerto Rican Steering Committee, Governor Romney said, "With the help of Zoraida and Jose, we will take our message of a strong military, strong economy and strong families to Puerto Ricans on the Isle of Enchantment and across the United States. Puerto Ricans are among the most patriotic, family-oriented and entrepreneurial Americans you will find, and I am honored to have the support of these respected leaders. With their help, I will provide the leadership to move forward a final resolution of Puerto Rico's century-old status issue."
Announcing her endorsement of Governor Romney, Fonalledas said, "It is a great honor to join Governor Romney's growing team. He will bring a refreshing new brand of leadership to Washington, and I am confident Puerto Ricans in the island and across the U.S. will be attracted to his message of change through strong conservative leadership."
Fuentes-Agostini said, "I am proud to support Governor Romney's candidacy for President of the United States. We need to elect someone with conservative credentials and the proven ability to get things done. Washington is broken and incapable of addressing the great issues of the day. Governor Romney is a proven problem-solver who can get Washington to work. I am pleased to chair his Puerto Rico Steering Committee."
Background On Zoraida Fonalledas:
Zoraida Fonalledas Has Served As Puerto Rico's GOP National Committeewoman Since 1995. During her tenure, Fonalledas has worked to build grassroots support, coordinate fundraising activities and promote family values. As the granddaughter of Rafael Martinez Nadal, a prominent leader in Puerto Rico's Statehood Republican Party, Fonalledas has been active in Puerto Rican and Republican politics since her youth. She has also been active in several professional and civic organizations, including the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities, the International Institute for People with Disabilities of Puerto Rico, and as a trustee of the Ana G. Mendez University System. Born and raised in Puerto Rico, Fonalledas received her Juris Doctor degree from the Inter-American University School of Law of Puerto Rico and her LLM in labor law from the New York University School of Law. She is a member of the American Bar Association and the Puerto Rico Bar Association.
Background On Jose Fuentes-Agostini:
Jose Fuentes-Agostini Served As Puerto Rico's Attorney General From 1997 Through 1999. There, he managed a Department of Justice comprised of over 500 attorneys and 1,700 support and investigative personnel. He has served as Chairman of the Puerto Rico-U.S. Virgin Islands High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area (HIDTA) Executive Committee, where he helped oversee drug control programs under the White House Office of Drug Control Policy. In 1998, he served as the coordinating officer for the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Hurricane Georges relief effort, successfully coordinating the relief and recovery efforts for all 78 municipalities in Puerto Rico. Fuentes-Agostini received his Juris Doctor degree from the Inter-American University School of Law. He is currently a partner with East Ports, LLC and has also been active in several organizations, including the Federal Bar Association, the Puerto Rico Easter Seal Society, the Republican National Hispanic Assembly and the Maryland Republican Hispanic Caucus.
  