
    Mitt Romney announced today that U.S. Senator Roy Blunt (Mo.) will lead his Congressional Team, spearheading the campaign's effort to secure the support of Republican members in both the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of Representatives.
During the 2000 presidential election, then-U.S. Representative Blunt filled a similar role for George W. Bush's campaign in the lead up to his securing the Republican Party's nomination and his successful bid for the White House.
"It is an honor to have Roy's support. He has always been a champion of taxpayers and small business owners, and I know that he will be an effective liaison in sharing my vision for America with his colleagues in both the House and the Senate," said Romney. "I look forward to working with Roy as I bring my plan for job creation to Missouri and the rest of the country."
"Our nation faces historic challenges today, and under President Obama's policies, we've witnessed high unemployment, skyrocketing debt, out-of-control spending, and burdensome regulations that have stifled job creation," said Blunt. "Through his experience in the private sector and as governor, I believe Mitt has the right background to help create more economic certainty and spur job growth in Missouri and nationwide, and that's why I'm proud to lead his Congressional Team."
Background On Senator Roy Blunt:
Senator Roy Blunt Was Elected To Represent Missouri In The United States Senate In 2010. He serves on the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee; the U.S. Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee; the U.S. Senate Select Committee on Intelligence; and the U.S. Senate Rules Committee. In addition, he also currently serves as a member of the U.S. Senate Republican Whip Team. Prior to his election to the Senate, Roy Blunt was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives from 1996 to 2008, where he was chosen by his colleagues to serve as the House Majority Whip and Republican Whip. As Whip, he led a team of deputies and assistants that columnist Robert Novak described as "the most efficient party whip operation in congressional history." He previously worked as a history teacher, Greene County Clerk and chief election official, Missouri's Secretary of State, and president of Southwest Baptist University before entering Congress.
  