
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Paula J. Dobriansky, of Virginia, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as Special Envoy for Northern Ireland.
Gregory F. Jacob, of New Jersey, to be Solicitor for the Department of Labor, vice Howard Radzely.
Robert D. Jamison, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for National Protection and Programs, Department of Homeland Security, vice George W. Foresman, resigned.
James Francis Moriarty, of Massachusetts, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
Dan Mozena, of Iowa, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Angola.
Louis John Nigro, Jr., of Florida, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chad.
Christopher A. Padilla, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, vice Franklin L. Lavin, resigned.
Paul E. Simons, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Charles W. Grim, of Oklahoma, to be Director of the Indian Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, for the term of four years, (Reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on May 21, 2007.
Scott A. Keller, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Steven B. Nesmith, resigned, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
David Palmer, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission for a term expiring July 1, 2011, vice Cari M. Dominguez, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 2007.
  