
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 5
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Shannon, Ireland, to Limerick, Ireland. In the evening, they returned to Shannon and then to Washington, DC.
September 8
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Silver Spring, MD, and later, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President made a congratulatory telephone call to St. Louis Cardinal first baseman Mark McGwire, whose 62d home run earlier in the night surpassed Major League Baseball's single-season home run record.
September 9
In the morning, the President met with several Democratic Members of the House of Representatives in the Yellow Oval Room in the Residence. Later, the President traveled to Orlando, FL, where upon arrival, he met with Tim Forneris, the Busch Stadium groundskeeper who retrieved Mark McGwire's record-breaking home run ball.
In the evening, the President traveled to Miami, FL, and later returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
The White House announced that the President directed $20 million from the U.S. Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance Fund to provide relief to refugees and displaced persons at risk due to the crisis in Kosovo.
September 10
In the morning, the President met with Democratic Members of the Senate in the Yellow Oval Room in the Residence.
In an afternoon ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors James Bolger of New Zealand, Alexander Philon of Greece, Zalman Shoval of Israel, Vang Rattanagong of Laos, Arlette Conzemius-Paccoud of Luxembourg, Mario Lopes de Rosa of Guinea-Bissau, Sonia Merlyn Johnny of Saint Lucia, Philip Dimitrov of Bulgaria, Erato Kozakou-Marcoullis of Cyprus, William Howard Stixrud Herrera of Guatemala, Damodar Prasad Gautam of Nepal, and Alexis Reyn of Belgium.
In the evening, the President met with his Cabinet in the Yellow Oval Room in the Residence.
The White House announced that the President invited President Andres Pastrana of Colombia for a state visit on October 28.
The White House announced that the President appointed David Leavy as Special Assistant to the President, Deputy Press Secretary, and Senior Director for Public Affairs at the National Security Council.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rand Beers to be Assistant Secretary of State for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeh Charles Johnson to be General Counsel for the Air Force.
The President announced his intention to nominate C. David Welch to be Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization Affairs.
The President announced his intention to designate Van B. Honeycutt as Chair of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
September 11
The President announced his intention to nominate Peter F. Romero to be Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Craig Gordon Dunkerley for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Envoy for Conventional Forces in Europe.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard Danzig to be Secretary of the Navy.
The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and high winds on September 7.
  