
    Memorandum for the Attorney General and the Secretary of Transportation
Subject: Providing for the Restoration of Law and Order in the Virgin Islands
Pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, I have issued Proclamation No. 6023 of September 20, 1989, ordering persons engaged in domestic violence and disorder in the United States Virgin Islands to cease and desist. It is my understanding that the conditions described in that Proclamation continue, and that the persons engaging in such acts of violence have not dispersed. Therefore, by the authority vested in me as President of the United States and Commander in Chief of the Armed Forces by the Constitution and laws of the United States, including Chapter 15 of Title 10 of the United States Code, in addition to the measures I have directed by Executive Order No. 12690 of September 20, 1989, to be taken, I am hereby ordering that the following measures be taken to restore law and order in the United States Virgin Islands:
1. Agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, members of the U.S. Marshals Service, and units and members of the U.S. Coast Guard will be used to suppress the violence described in the proclamation and to restore law and order in and about the Virgin Islands.
2. The Attorney General is authorized to use such agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and members of the U.S. Marshals Service as may be necessary to carry out the directive of paragraph 1 and to aid in the administration of justice in and about the Virgin Islands. In particular, the Attorney General is authorized to use such personnel in response to, or to prevent, violations of the orders contained in Proclamation No. 6023, including to arrest persons in violation of law.
3. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to use such units or members of the U.S. Coast Guard as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of paragraph 1. To that end, he is authorized to call into the active military service of the United States units or members of the U.S. Coast Guard, as authorized by law, to serve in an active duty status for an indefinite period and until relieved by appropriate orders. Units or members may be relieved subject to recall at the Secretary's discretion. In carrying out the provisions of this memorandum, the Secretary shall observe such law enforcement policies as the Attorney General may determine.
4. The Attorney General is authorized (a) to coordinate the law enforcement policies of all Federal agencies assisting in the suppression of violence and in the administration of justice in and about the Virgin Islands, and (b) to coordinate the law enforcement policies of all such agencies with those of territorial and local agencies similarly engaged.
5. The Secretary of Transportation is authorized to determine when U.S. Coast Guard forces shall be withdrawn from the disturbance area and when such personnel shall be released from active Federal service. Such determination shall be made in the light of the Attorney General's recommendations as to the ability of territorial and local authorities to resume full responsibility for the maintenance of law and order in the affected area.
6. The Attorney General and the Secretary of Transportation are authorized to delegate to subordinate officials of their respective Departments any of the authority conferred upon them by this memorandum.
George Bush
  