
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest web ad, entitled "Nothing New." The ad highlights Barack Obama's position of taking absolutely no position on the federal government bailout of AIG. At a time of economic crisis, the American people cannot afford a leader who merely votes present like Barack Obama did nearly 130 times in the Illinois State Legislature.
VIEW THE AD HERE:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9z2Zq3bQfG8
Script For "Nothing New" (WEB :30)
Fox News' Major Garrett: On the biggest financial issue of the day, Barack Obama would not say if he supported or opposed the government-backed rescue of insurance giant AIG.
ANNCR: It's nothing new.
The Times reports Obama "voted 'present'...nearly 130 times as a state senator."
On teaching discipline.
Providing patients' rights.
Tough penalties on criminals.
He voted present.
The answers may seem obvious to you. But not to him.
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approved this message.
AD FACTS: Script For "Nothing New" (WEB :30)
Fox News' Major Garrett: On the biggest financial issue of the day, Barack Obama would not say if he supported or opposed the government-backed rescue of insurance giant AIG.

Fox News' Major Garrett: "Barack Obama Would Not Say If He Supported Or Opposed The Government-Backed Rescue Of Insurance Giant AIG." GARRETT: "On the biggest financial issue of the day, Barack Obama would not say if he supported or opposed the government-backed rescue of insurance giant AIG." BARACK OBAMA: "We don't know all the details of the arrangement with AIG and the Federal Reserve must ensure that plans protect the families that count on insurance." GARRETT: "Obama also wants taxpayers protected but executives and shareholders exposed but on the central question to intervene or not, Obama sidestepped. Advisers said lack of details forced caution. The larger political truth: advisors believe anxiety alone is enough to lift Obama in the polls. That is why on the trail, Obama doesn't talk about specifics of the moment but the nation's overall direction." (Fox News' "The Special Report," 9/17/08)

ANNCR: It's nothing new. The Times reports Obama "voted 'present'...nearly 130 times as a state senator."

Barack Obama Voted "Present" Nearly 130 Times When He Was A State Senator. "In the end, Mr. Obama chose neither to vote for nor against the bill. He voted 'present,' effectively sidestepping the issue, an option he invoked nearly 130 times as a state senator." (Raymond Hernandez And Christopher Drew, "It's Not Just 'Ayes' And 'Nays': Obama's Votes In Illinois Echo," The New York Times, 12/20/07)

ANNCR: On teaching discipline.

In 1998, Barack Obama Voted "Present" On A Bill Requiring Public Schools To Teach Discipline And Respect. "Requires all public school teachers to teach pupils discipline and respect for others." (H.B. 3793: Passed 44-10-1, 5/13/98, Obama Voted Present)

ANNCR: Providing patients' rights.

Barack Obama Voted "Present" On The Managed Care Patients Rights Act In The Illinois State Senate. (S.B. 0579: Senate Floor Third Reading, Passed, 36-3-19, 3/25/99, Obama Voted Present)

ANNCR: Tough penalties on criminals. He voted present. The answers may seem obvious to you. But not to him. JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approved this message.

In 1999, Barack Obama Voted "Present" On A Bill Requiring Mandatory Adult Prosecution For Aggravated Discharge Of Firearms On Or Near School Property. (S.B. 759: Senate Floor Third Reading, Passed, 52-1-5, 3/25/99, Obama Voted Present)


In 2001, Barack Obama Voted "Present" On A Bill To Increase The Penalties For Delivering Drugs Such As Ecstasy. (H.B. 126: Senate Floor Third Reading, Passed, 51-1-3, 5/10/01, Obama Voted Present)

  