
    President Tolbert, Mrs. Tolbert, ladies and gentlemen:
I am particularly pleased to welcome back to Washington a distinguished friend of the United States of America. President Tolbert, your state visit is the first by an African leader in our third century of American history. We are proud and honored to have the red, white, and blue of Liberia fly side by side with our own colors.
Americans and Liberians share a very unique and special relationship. Both countries were founded by men and women who deeply believe in liberty and justice. The Liberian national motto, "The love of liberty brought us here," could apply just as well to the United States of America.
You have arrived here at a time when Americans are seeking to assist Africans to achieve peaceful solutions to extremely difficult problems. I have sent our Secretary of State to Africa, in full knowledge of the complexity of the problems and of the limitations of our role. Any realistic and enduring settlement must be made in Africa. We can only offer our assistance in encouraging the parties to negotiate to prevent increased violence and bloodshed.
Mr. President, as a distinguished African statesman, you are fully aware of the danger and the challenge that faces all men and women of good will in the southern portion of your continent. We greatly appreciate and value your wise counsel, your moderation, and your support. We assure you that the United States will remain a trusted friend, worthy of your confidence and that of all Liberians and all the peoples of Africa.
Americans have noted with admiration the determination [with] which Liberia is developing its potentialities. We will continue to help Liberia help herself.
As President of Liberia, you have contributed much to the material and spiritual evolution of your people. But you have also given yourself internationally as an ordained Baptist minister, through your leadership of the Baptist World Alliance. As the first black elected president of the Baptist World Alliance, you have advanced the vision of President Tubman1 through your inspired work for the benefit of man and the glory of God.
We thank you and all the people of Liberia not only for your visit but for Liberia's many manifestations of friendship in this Bicentennial Year. I was especially gratified to know of your personal participation, Mr. President, in our Fourth of July celebration in Monrovia.
Mr. President, you are a welcome visitor to the Nation's Capital and to the White House. I look forward to our discussions. Through these exchanges, we can advance the cause of peaceful progress for Africa and for all humanity. The American people join in welcoming you and strengthening, during this visit, the very close ties between our two peoples.
  