
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 11
In the morning, the President traveled to Carbondale, IL.
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC. He then met with members of the Principals Committee and Assistant Secretary of State Richard Holbrooke to discuss Bosnia-Herzegovina.
The President announced his intention to nominate Donna Dearman Smith to the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Morris S. Arnold to the Board of Directors of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint John J. Pikarski, Jr., to the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad.
The White House announced that the President will award the Presidential Medal of Freedom to the following individuals in a White House ceremony on September 28:
—Peggy Charren;
—William T. Coleman, Jr.;
—Joan Ganz Cooney;
—John Hope Franklin;
—A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr.;
—Frank M. Johnson, Jr.;
—C. Everett Koop;
—Gaylord Nelson;
—Walter P. Reuther;
—James W. Rouse;
—Willie Velasquez; and
—Lew R. Wasserman.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Thomas Klestil of Austria to Washington, DC, for a working visit on October 19.
September 12
In the morning, the President met with President Sali Berisha of Albania.
In an Oval Office ceremony in the afternoon, the President presented the Congressional Gold Medal posthumously to Rabbi Menachem Schneerson.
September 13
In the morning, the President traveled to Elkridge, MD.
Following his return to Washington, DC, in the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister P.J. Patterson of Jamaica. He then met briefly with His Holiness the Dalai Lama to discuss the preservation of Tibetan religion and culture.
The White House announced that the President has invited President Jacques Chirac of France to Washington, DC, for a state visit on November 3.
September 14
The President announced his intention to appoint Vera C. Rubin, Eric S. Lander, Marcia K. McNutt, and George S. Hammond as members of the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science.
The President announced his intention to appoint R. Scott Warner as a member of the Panama Canal Consultative Committee.
September 15
In a morning ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Var Huoth of Cambodia, Mustafa S. Nyang'anyi of Tanzania, Pastor Micha Ondo Bile of Equatorial Guinea, Alvaro Diez de Medina of Uruguay, Knud Erik Tygesen of Denmark, John Kerr of the United Kingdom, and Antonio Franca N'dalu of Angola.
In the afternoon, the President met with representatives of the Catholic press. Later he participated in a briefing for senior activists on Medicare and Medicaid.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a Democratic National Committee trustees dinner on the State Floor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jane Bobbitt to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs.
  