
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated Judge Richard Callahan, Michael Cotter, Nicholas Klinefeldt and Stephanie Rose to be U.S. Attorneys. Callahan is a nominee for the Eastern District of Missouri, Cotter for the District of Montana, Klinefeldt for the Southern District of Iowa and Rose for the Northern District of Iowa.
"These nominees have displayed an unyielding dedication to serving the public good," said President Obama. "They are some of the most diligent, judicious and well-respected legal minds in the country. I am confident that, as U.S. Attorneys, they will be relentless in their pursuit of justice and serve the American people with distinction."
Judge Richard Callahan: Nominee for the Eastern District of Missouri
Judge Richard Callahan is a Missouri Circuit Court Judge, a position he has held since 2002. He is the former Prosecuting Attorney of Cole County and Special Prosecutor in the Missouri Attorney General's Office. He received his A.B. in 1968 and his J.D. in 1972, both from Georgetown University.
Michael W. Cotter: Nominee for the District of Montana
Michael Cotter has been the sole practitioner at Michael W. Cotter, P.C. in Helena, Montana since 2000. He began his legal career as an associate at the Law Offices of John C. Hoyt, later forming the Cotter & Cotter Law Firm with his wife. Cotter served on active duty with the United States Army from 1972 to 1974 and was honorably discharged as a First Lieutenant. Cotter graduated from the University of Notre Dame, received his Masters in Business Administration from the University of Utah, and received his J.D. from the University of Notre Dame.
Nicholas Klinefeldt: Nominee for the Southern District of Iowa
Nicholas Klinefeldt is an associate at the Des Moines law firm Ahlers & Cooney, PC, where he practices civil and criminal litigation. Prior to joining his current firm, he was a criminal defense lawyer at the Boston law firm Kelly, Libby & Hoopes. He received his B.A. in 1995 and his J.D. in 2000, both from the University of Iowa.
Stephanie Rose: Nominee for the Northern District of Iowa
Stephanie Rose is an Assistant U.S. Attorney and the Deputy Chief of Criminal Prosecutions in the Northern District of Iowa. She has received numerous awards from the Department of Justice, including the Director's Award for Superior Performance by an Assistant U.S. Attorney in 2001. She received her B.A. in 1994 and her J.D. in 1996, both from the University of Iowa.
  