
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 12
Marc Grossman, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkey.
Gabriel Guerra-Mondragon, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile.
Charles E. Redman, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Germany.
Frank N. Newman, of California, to be Deputy Secretary of the Treasury, vice Roger Altman, resigned.
Edward. S. Knight, of Texas, to be General Counsel for the Department of the Treasury, vice Jean E. Hanson, resigned.
Devra Lee Davis, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years (new position).
Gerald V. Poje, of Virginia, to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of 5 years (new position).
Cecil James Banks, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring November 13, 1995, vice T. M. Alexander, Sr., resigned.
Marciene S. Mattleman, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for the remainder of the term expiring October 12, 1995, vice Jim Edgar, resigned.
Lynne C. Waihee, of Hawaii, to be a member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term of 3 years (new position).
Submitted September 13
Thomas E. McNamara, of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Robert L. Gallucci.
Jerome Gary Cooper, of Alabama, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Jamaica.
Geraldine A. Ferraro, of New York, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as the Representative of the United States of America on the Human Rights Commission of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations.
Martha F. Riche, of Maryland, to be Director of the Census, vice Barbara Everitt Bryant, resigned.
Ruth Y. Tamura, of Hawaii, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1996, vice James H. Duff, term expired.
Patricia Hill Williams, of New York, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2000, vice James R. Whelan, term expired.
Submitted September 14
Karen Nelson Moore, of Ohio, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Robert B. Krupansky, retired.
Roslyn Moore-Silver, of Arizona, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Arizona, vice Earl H. Carroll, retired.
Maxine M. Chesney, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice John P. Vukasin, Jr., deceased.
James Robertson, of Maryland, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice George H. Revercomb, deceased.
Thomas B. Russell, of Kentucky, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Kentucky, vice Edward H. Johnstone, retired.
Sidney H. Stein, of New York, to be U.S. District Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Pierre N. Leval, elevated.
Alvin W. Thompson, of Connecticut, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Connecticut, vice Ellen Bree Burns, retired.
William H. Walls, of New Jersey, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of New Jersey, vice Harold A. Ackerman, retired.
Hazel Rollins O'Leary, of Minnesota, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-eighth Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Ivan Selin, of the District of Columbia, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-eighth Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Nelson F. Sievering, Jr., of Maryland, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-eighth Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
John B. Ritch III, of the District of Columbia, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-eighth Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
William Hybl, of Colorado, to be a member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 1997 (reappointment).
Albert H. Nahmad, of Florida, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Panama Canal Commission, vice Robert R. McMillian.
Vincent Reed Ryan, Jr., of Texas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Panama Canal Commission, vice Walter J. Shea.
Peggy Goldwater-Clay, of California, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring June 5, 2000, vice Barry M. Goldwater, Jr., term expired.
Niranjan Shamalbhai Shah, of Illinois, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring August 11, 1998, vice Timothy W. Tong, term expired.
Robert F. Drinan, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Cherry T. Kinoshita, of Washington, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Elsa H. Kudo, of Hawaii, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Yeiichi Kuwayama, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
Don T. Nakanishi, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund for a term of 2 years (new position).
Michael R. Ramon, of California, to be U.S. Marshal for the Central District of California, vice Craig L. Meacham, resigned.
Submitted September 16
Alice M. Rivlin, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Office of Management and Budget, vice Leon E. Panetta.
  