
    Donald J. Trump Announces New Hires in Georgia, Tennessee and Virginia
The Trump Campaign Continues to Bolster State Staff Nationwide While Maintaining Front Runner Status
(New York, NY) September 22, 2015 - Donald J. Trump today announced the appointment of Seth Weathers as Georgia State Director and Darren Morris as Tennessee State Director. Mr. Weathers brings a decade of experience in politics at both the national and state levels and will be charged with the day to day operations in Georgia where Mr. Trump is currently leading the Republican Primary field with 30% in the most recent state poll. Mr. Morris, also a seasoned political operative, has worked on several Presidential races and will serve as the State Director of Tennessee for the Trump campaign.
Mr. Trump stated, "It is great to welcome Seth and Darren as we continue to build our team around the country and organize in early states. We have received great support in Georgia and Tennessee where my message to create jobs, secure our border, strengthen our military and take care of our vets resonates strongly with voters who are ready to Make America Great Again."
Seth Weathers came to the political arena from a tech and business background and is the founder of Weathers Corp, which services both corporate and political clients. Seth is formerly Chairman of The Gwinnett Young Republicans, Georgia GOP State Committee, 7th District Committee for the Georgia GOP, Fulton County GOP Executive Committee, and Board of Directors Live Oak Republicans. He was previously nominated by U.S. Senator Saxby Chambliss to the US Senate Leadership Summit for Young Professional in DC, and is an Atlanta Power 30 Under 30 Award Winner.
Darren Morris is president of Morris Global Strategies, a public affairs and political consulting firm based in Nashville, Tennessee. For over two decades, Morris has served a wide array of political campaigns, corporations and associations across the United States and the European Union. He began his career in presidential campaigns in 1996, when he served in the press operation for Lamar Alexander and has worked in each presidential campaign cycle since then, as well as in various communications positions for each Republican National Convention.
Additionally, Dena Espenscheid will serve as Field Director for the Trump Campaign in Virginia. Dena brings more than two decades of experience in grassroots organizing, campaign management, public policy, and grassroots lobbying. Most recently, Dena taught grassroots advocacy in Florida to Tea Party and 9-12 groups for American Majority, and build a network of conservative women's clubs in Virginia.
Mr. Trump maintains his definitive front- runner status by a wide margin in all of the most recent polls including NBC News, Zogby, CNN, and Morning Consult. He will be in South Carolina on Wednesday and will visit Oklahoma on Friday.
  