
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Elizabeth "Beth" Robinson, Chief Financial Officer, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
•      Michael F. Mundaca, Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, Department of the Treasury
President Obama also appointed three individuals to serve on the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities. Their names and bios are below.
President Obama said, "My administration is committed to economic recovery, pushing the boundaries of science and space exploration and investing in the future of arts and the humanities, and these individuals will serve my team well as we work to accomplish these goals. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Elizabeth "Beth" Robinson, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer, National Aeronautics and Space AdministrationBeth Robinson is currently the Assistant Director for Budget at the Office of Management and Budget, where she leads the Budget Review Division to oversee the development, enactment and execution of the President's budget. From 2003 to 2005, she was the Deputy Director for the Congressional Budget Office, where she guided the development of cost estimates for legislation and reports on legislative options. She previously worked at OMB from 1998 to 2003, where she began as a Program Examiner on energy issues and ended as the Deputy Assistant Director for Budget Review and Concepts. Prior to that, Dr. Robinson worked on Capitol Hill for several years as a Professional Staff Member on the Committee on Science, Space and Technology, where she crafted legislation on various science and energy policy issues. She received a Ph.D. in Geophysics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Bachelor of Science in Physics from Reed College.
Michael F. Mundaca, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy, Department of the TreasuryMichael F. Mundaca currently is Senior Advisor for Policy within the Treasury Department's Office of Tax Policy and the Acting Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy. Mr. Mundaca served in the Treasury Department during the Clinton Administration and returned to the Treasury Department in 2007, as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Tax Affairs. Before that appointment, he was a partner for five years in the International Tax Services group of Ernst & Young's National Tax Department, in Washington, D.C. His practice focused on cross-border planning and structuring, including especially tax treaty issues, and on international legislative and regulatory monitoring and consulting. Before joining Ernst & Young, Mr. Mundaca served for over five years in Treasury's Office of the International Tax Counsel, leaving as the Deputy International Tax Counsel. He was also Treasury's Senior Advisor on Electronic Commerce. Prior to that first stint in Treasury, he was an associate at Sullivan & Cromwell, a law firm in New York. Mr. Mundaca has been an adjunct professor at the Georgetown University Law Center, teaching a seminar on tax treaties. Mr. Mundaca received a B.A. in philosophy and in physics from Columbia University, in 1986, and an M.A. in philosophy from the University of Chicago, in 1988. He received a J.D. from the University of California, Berkeley, School of Law (Boalt Hall), in 1992, where he was Senior Executive Editor of The California Law Review and a member of the Order of the Coif. He also has an LL.M., in taxation (international tax specialization), from the University of Miami.
President Obama also announced that he has appointed the following individuals today to serve on the President's Committee on the Arts and Humanities:
Margo Lion, Co-Chairman, President's Committee on the Arts and HumanitiesMargo Lion's career has spanned theatre, politics, and education. Starting out as an intern on Capitol Hill for Senator Daniel B. Brewster (D-Maryland) and then as a special cultural projects coordinator in Senator Robert F. Kennedy's New York office, Lion shifted her career to teaching elementary school in the years following Senator Kennedy's death. In 1977, Lion began producing theater for the not-for-profit company, Music-Theater Group/Lenox Arts Center, and in 1982 began her work as a commercial theatre producer. Lion has worked with the pre-eminent theater writers of our time including: Tony Kushner, David Mamet, Arthur Miller, August Wilson and George C. Wolfe. Her shows on Broadway include: HAIRSPRAY; CAROLINE, OR CHANGE; and ANGELS IN AMERICA. Lion's productions have garnered 20 Tony Awards, 4 Olivier Awards and 1 Pulitzer Prize. Lion is an adjunct professor and a member of the Dean's Council at the NYU-Tisch School of the Arts. She also serves on the Board of Directors of the LAByrinth Theatre and Broadway Cares/Equity Fights Aids, and on the advisory boards of the Baltimore Young Women's Leadership School, the Alliance for Inclusion in the Arts and PUBLICOLOR.
George Stevens, Jr., Co-Chairman, President's Committee on the Arts and HumanitiesIn a career spanning fifty years George Stevens, Jr. has created a legacy of distinguished work as a writer, director, producer of motion pictures and television. In 1962 he became the head of the Motion Picture Service of the U.S. Information Agency under Edward R. Murrow, and in 1967 founded the American Film Institute. He continues to serve on the AFI Board. As a writer and producer Stevens has earned 11 Emmys, two George Foster Peabody Awards for Meritorious Service to Broadcasting and nine awards from the Writers Guild of America. Among his honored productions are The Kennedy Center Honors which he launched in 1978; the mini-series Separate But Equal and The Murder of Mary Phagan; George Stevens: A Filmmaker's Journey; We Are One: The Obama Inaugural Celebration from the Lincoln Memorial; and the feature film The Thin Red Line which was nominated for seven Academy Awards including Best Picture. In 2008 he made his debut as a playwright on Broadway with Thurgood which earned a Tony nomination for its star Laurence Fishburne. He is also a successful author. Conversations with the Great Moviemakers of Hollywood's Golden Age was published in 2005. Currently, Stevens is producing the thirty-second annual Kennedy Center Honors, a feature length documentary on the famed political cartoonist Herb Block, and writing a new book on film for Knopf.
Mary Schmidt Campbell, Vice Chairman, President's Committee on the Arts and HumanitiesMary Schmidt Campbell has been dean of New York University's Tisch School of the Arts since 1991. Dean Campbell began her career in New York as the executive director of the Studio Museum in Harlem. Under her leadership, the Studio Museum in Harlem emerged as a major national and international cultural institution and a lynchpin of the economic revival of Harlem. In 1987, Mayor Edward I. Koch invited Dr. Campbell to serve as Commissioner of Cultural Affairs of the City of New York. Dean Campbell holds a B.A. degree in English literature from Swarthmore College, an M.A. in art history from Syracuse University, and a Ph.D. in humanities, also from Syracuse. She is co-author of Harlem Renaissance: Art of Black America (New York: Harry N. Abrams, Inc., 1987) and Memory and Metaphor: The Art of Romare Bearden, 1940-1987 (New York: Oxford University Press & The Studio Museum in Harlem, 1991). She is the co-editor of Artistic Citizenship: A Public Voice for the Arts (New York: Routledge, 2006.) She is currently working on a book on Romare Bearden for Oxford University Press, (2011 expected publication date). She sits on the board of The American Academy in Rome and the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. In the fall of 2001 she was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She served in the voluntary position of Chair of the New York State Council on the Arts from 2007-2009. She also serves as the Chairman of the Board of Tisch Asia, the Tisch School of the Arts Singapore campus.
  