
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Iowa Press Shop (515) 309-1990
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced his Linn County, Iowa Leadership Team. This team will be responsible for organizing Iowa's second-largest county in preparation for the upcoming caucuses.
"These individuals are actively sharing my message of a strong economy, strong military and strong families throughout Cedar Rapids and surrounding communities," said Governor Romney. "I have enjoyed working with them throughout the summer, and look forward to their assistance as my campaign moves toward the caucuses."
Chairing the Romney for President Linn County Team is Joni Scotter, a long-time Linn County Republican activist.
"Governor Romney will bring the change we need in Washington," said Scotter. "His experience in the public, private and volunteer sectors have equipped him for the challenges that lie ahead. With his strong conservative vision, he can make this country a safer, more prosperous place."
Background on the Linn County Leadership Team:
Joni Scotter, Chair: Joni is a former Co-Chair of the Linn County Republican Party and previously served as President of the Linn County Republican Women. She has been instrumental in a number of Republican campaigns for the last 20 years. In the community, Joni serves on the selection committee for the Linn County Woman of the Year and is a member of the League of Women Voters. She and her husband Dick have two grown sons, and two grandchildren.
Brent and Renee Schulte: Renee ran as the Republican candidate for the Iowa Senate in 2006. She currently is an adjunct professor at Mt. Mercy College in Cedar Rapids. She serves as a board member of House of Hope, Aid to Women, and the League of Women Voters. They are both active members of Antioch Christian Church, where Brent is Discipleship Pastor at Antioch Church, and Renee is a women's ministry leader.
Tom and Kathy Potts: Kathy is a former Chair of the Linn County Republican Party. She is an advisory board member for the Iowa Federation of Republican Women, as well as the National Federation of Republican Women. Tom is an engineer at Rockwell Collins. They have four children.
Tim Palmer: Tim is a small business owner in the food manufacturing industry, founding Clover Hill Creations in 2001. He serves on the Board of Directors for Hawkeye Area Council of Boy Scouts of America. Tim and his wife, Carol, are members of Antioch Christian Church and have nine children.
Don Palmer: Don was the Republican candidate for the Iowa House District 38 in 2006. He is a lifelong Iowan, Boy Scout Leader and teaches Sunday School at First Lutheran Church.
Frank Sladek: Frank has been involved in Linn County Republican politics for nearly 30 years. He is currently an Adjunct Professor of Speech Communication Theatre at Kirkwood Community College. He is very active in Spirit of Faith Family Church, the Boy Scouts of America, and the Hawkeye Area Council.
  