
    Experienced Hands to Build Upon Great Start In Palmetto State
McLean, VA - Former Senator Fred Thompson's campaign announced today the addition of three veteran grassroots leaders who will head up the campaign in South Carolina. The South Carolina campaign will be led by Dean Rice, the South Carolina Manager. Lance Williams, serving as Operations Director, and Walter Whetsell, working as an in-state consultant, will be rounding out Fred Thompson's Palmetto state operation.
Rice, a veteran conservative activist, began working for Fred Thompson in 1994 during his first campaign for the U.S. Senate, served on his legislative staff on Capitol Hill, and worked on the Senator's successful reelection effort in 1996. In addition to his campaign work for Sen. Thompson, Rice served as Elizabeth Dole's Southern Regional Political Director during the 2000 presidential primary, where he was responsible for the grassroots operations in 16 states, including South Carolina. Thereafter, Rice was the National Field Director of the Christian Coalition of America. Rice also served as campaign manager for Rep. John J. Duncan's 2006 re-election campaign in Tennessee.
Lance Williams will be the South Carolina Operations Director for the Thompson campaign. Williams will bring strong political and private sector business experience. Prior to serving as Chief of Staff to South Carolina Congressman Gresham Barrett, Williams spent many years running his own small business. In addition, Williams has been involved in grassroots efforts for several state-wide campaigns. Williams, who also holds an MBA, received his undergraduate degree from Clemson University.
Walter Whetsell will serve as an advisor to the campaign and an in-state consultant. Whetsell has extensive political and grassroots experience in South Carolina, having implemented and developed voter contact programs for numerous state-wide races. In 2004, Whetsell played an important role in helping Rep. Jim DeMint in both his successful primary and general election bid for the U.S. Senate. More recently, Whetsell coordinated the voter contact direct mail program for the Governor Sandford's successful reelection campaign in 2006. Whetsell is the founder of Starboard Communications based in Lexington, South Carolina.
"Dean, Lance, and Walter bring invaluable political and grassroots experience to Fred Thompson's organization in South Carolina," said Thompson's National Political Director Randy Enwright. "They will be a tremendous asset to our team in South Carolina, and the campaign is very pleased to have them on board."
  