
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 18
Jane Bobbitt,
of West Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Loretta L. Dunn, resigned.
Donna Dearman Smith,
of Alabama, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring March 3, 1998, vice Howard W. Cannon, term expired.
Hazel Rollins O'Leary,
of Minnesota, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-ninth Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Shirley Ann Jackson,
of New Jersey, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-ninth Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Nelson F. Sievering, Jr.,
of Maryland, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-ninth Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
John B. Ritch III,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Thirty-ninth Session of the General Conference of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
Withdrawn September 18
Howard W. Cannon,
of Nevada, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Barry Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation for a term expiring March 3, 1998 (reappointment), which was sent to the Senate on January 5, 1995.
Submitted September 20
James William Blagg,
of Texas, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Ronald F. Ederer, resigned.
Susan Robinson King,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Doug Ross, resigned.
Submitted September 22
Eric James Boswell,
of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Anthony Cecil Eden Quainton.
Anthony Cecil Eden Quainton,
of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Director General of the Foreign Service, vice Genta Hawkins Holmes.
  