
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today officially announced its California Finance Leadership Team. The team is led by Jon Liebman, CEO of Brillstein Entertainment Partners, who will serve as the campaign's California Finance Chairman.
Co-Chairs include Ken Derr, Paul Folino, Floyd Kvamme, Bill Mundell, Bob Naylor, Ron Plotkin, Kelly Roberts and Frank Visco.
"I have known Mayor Giuliani for over 20 years, and I am convinced that he will be a great President," said Liebman. "He is a proven and electable leader who appeals to a broad range of voters."
"This is a solid team who will continue to play an integral role in Rudy's fundraising efforts and overall campaign in California," said Bill Simon, Giuliani's California Campaign Chairman.
About Rudy's California Finance Leadership Team:
Jon Liebman, Chairman
Liebman is Chief Executive Officer and Co-Owner of Brillstein Entertainment Partners. In 2005, Liebman and his partner acquired Brillstein-Grey Entertainment. Liebman manages the business of the company. In 2002, Liebman produced "In Memoriam: New York City 9/11/01," a highly acclaimed HBO documentary that raised over $1 million for the victims of the September 11 Terrorists Attacks. Liebman was nominated for a Prime Time Emmy Award in 2002 as Executive Producer of the documentary. Liebman is an active member of both the Los Angeles Committee on Foreign Relations and the Pacific Council on International Policy. He has written, taught and lectured on the entertainment business and legal matters. He served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York under Rudolph Giuliani, and was appointed Deputy Chief of the Criminal Division after four years in the U.S. Attorney's office.
Ken Derr, Co-Chair
Derr retired as chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Chevron Corp. after a distinguished career of 40 years with the company. He was elected president of Chevron U.S.A. Inc. on Oct. 1, 1979. He was elected a director of the corporation in 1981 and was elected vice chairman in October 1985. He became chairman and chief executive officer on Jan. 1, 1989. Derr is a director of AT&T, Citigroup, Halliburton Company, Calpine Corporation and the American Productivity & Quality Center. He is a former chairman of the American Petroleum Institute and a Trustee Emeritus of Cornell University. He is a member of the Business Council, the Council on Foreign Relations and the Board of Overseers of the Hoover Institute and currently, co-chairman for the Committee to Encourage Corporate Philanthropy. He served as a member of President Bush's Commission on Environmental Quality, and also was a member of President Clinton's Council on Sustainable Development.

Paul Folino, Co-Chair
Folino is the chairman and chief executive officer of Orange County's Emulex Corporation, a high-technology network storage company. Mr. Folino served on Governor Schwarzenegger's transition team and his Economic Recovery Council. A native of Seattle, Washington, Folino served as an executive for several high-tech companies, including the Thomas-Conrad Corporation, which was recognized by Inc. magazine as one of the fastest-growing privately held corporations in America. In 1999, Folino was recognized as Orange County Entrepreneur of the Year for technology and in 2000 as Ernst & Young's Orange County Director of the Year for high growth technology.
Floyd Kvamme, Co-Chair
Kvamme is a Partner Emeritus at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers, a high-technology venture capital firm and, presently, serves on five high tech company boards including National Semiconductor, Harmonic, and Power Integrations. Since 2001, Kvamme has served as Co-Chair of President Bush's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, (PCAST). He helped found National in 1967, serving as general manager of Semiconductor Operations. In 1982, he became executive vice president of Sales and Marketing for Apple Computer. He holds a BSEE from the University of California, Berkeley, and an MSE in semiconductor electronics from Syracuse University.
Bill Mundell, Co-Chair
Mundell, concurrent with his position at IKM through June 2006, also served as Chairman of the Board for Vidyah, Inc promoting rich media e-learning platforms to increase the supply of education while reducing the cost of learning. Prior to joining Vidyah, Mundell served as President and Chief Executive Officer of WEFA Group, executing a series of strategic acquisitions that consolidated the economic information industry, and turned WEFA into an international organization with offices and joint ventures around the world.
Bob Naylor, Co-Chair
Naylor's knowledge of state government and the legislative process is extensive, having served in the California Legislature as a member of the Assembly for eight years and as Assembly Minority Leader for three years. He also served as chairman of the California Republican Party for two years and after being confirmed by the U.S. Senate, served four years as trustee of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. He is a graduate of Stanford University and received his law degree from Yale Law School. He was the Co-director of the Vietnam Orphans Airlift in 1975 and is a director of the Civil Justice Association of California.
Ron Plotkin, Co-Chair
Plotkin is the Founders Circle Chair, The Alliance for the Arts. The Thousand Oaks Civic Arts Plaza is funded through a unique public/private partnership between the City of Thousand Oaks and The Alliance for the Arts. Alliance fundraising efforts have allowed the Center to operate in the black since its opening in 1994. The Alliance is the private sector partner of the City of Thousand Oaks Civic Arts Plaza and has been nationally recognized by the National Endowment for the Arts and the League of Cities as a successful model for public/private partnerships.
Kelly Roberts, Co-Chair
Roberts, along with her husband Duane, owns the Mission Inn in Riverside, California. Kelly holds the position of Vice Chairman of the Board for The Historic Mission Inn Foundation, as well as the visionary behind Kelly's Spa at the hotel, where Kelly has launched a new botanical line of products Kelly's Fountain of Youth Collections. In September 2006, Kelly was appointed by Governor Schwarzenegger to the California Council on Criminal Justice. Kelly is also a member of the Board for the Loma Linda University Children's Hospital Foundation. Additionally, Kelly serves as a member of Team California, a prestigious organization that raises funds for Republican causes, as well as the Republican Regents. She was also a member of the delegation for Bob Dole for President. Kelly has also participated in major fundraising campaigns for President George W. Bush, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, Governor Pete Wilson, Congressman Ken Calvert, Senator Ray Haynes, Assemblyman Ted Weggeland, and District Attorney Grover Trask and collaborates actively with the Lincoln Club of Riverside County.
Frank Visco, Co-Chair
Visco began his political career in 1974 raising money for an Assembly candidate who was serving Ronald Reagan in his administration in Sacramento. Frank has raised millions of dollars over the last 30 years for Republican causes. He has been a delegate to the Republican National Convention consecutively from 1976 to 2000. Frank also had the distinction of being the Floor Whip of the Republican Delegation from California in 1996. In 1987, Frank was elected Vice Chairman of the California Republican Party and was unanimously elected as Chairman in 1989, serving during the decade where a Republican Governor was crucial for redistricting during the 90's. In 1988, Frank was chosen as a member of the Electoral College to cast a ballot for George Bush for President. Frank also served on the Republican National Finance Committee in 2000 and 2004 to help ensure the election of George W. Bush.
  