
    Republican presidential nominee Bob Dole today announced a 22- member Economic Policy Advisory Committee along with nine specialized task forces that will assess the state of the economy and ease the implementation of the Dole-Kemp Plan for Economic Renewal.
The Advisory Committee will be chaired by George Shutlz, former Secretary of Treasury, State, Labor, and Director of OMB. John B. Taylor, former member of the President's Council of Economic Advisers and a Stanford University professor, will be the committee's vice chair. Darrell Trent, former Deputy Secretary of Transportation, will be the executive director of the Advisory Committee and the task forces.
The nine task forces will focus on economic growth with Chair Gary Becker; tax reduction and reform with Chair Michael Boskin; budget and spending controls with Chair John Cogan; regulation reform with Chair Wendy Gramm; litigation reform with Chair John Robson; privatization and decentralization with Chair Walter Wriston; education, training and out-placement with Chair Peter Flanigan, international trade and investment with Chair Carla Hills; and implementation of Bob Dole's Plan for Economic Renewal with Chair Edwin Meese. The chairs of each task force will also serve on the Advisory Committee.
The Advisory Committee will be comprised of noted experts such as economists Gary Becker, Milton Friedman, Merton Miller, Wayne Angell, Martin Feldstein, Anne Krueger, John Lipsky, Alan Reynolds, Judy Shelton and Tom Sowell.
In announcing the Advisory Committee, Bob Dole said: "I have always sought, and continue to seek, the most capable and experienced people to advise me on important issues. I am encouraged by the dedication and commitment of these outstanding individuals who bring their experience to bear on these important economic policy issues.
"The efforts undertaken by these task forces will be a thorough study of our economic programs by experts from the private sector. The current administration's willingness to settle for anemic 2.3 percent rate of growth in the economy is a capitulation to a future without hope. The American people can and should aspire to higher growth, greater opportunity for their children, and a better America."
DOLE/KEMP ECONOMIC TASK FORCES
ECONOMIC POLICY ADVISORY COMMITTEE
George P. Shultz, Chairman
former Secretary of Treasury, State, and Labor
former Director, Office of Management and Budget
John B. Taylor, Vice Chairman
Professor of Economics, Stanford University
Director, Center for Economic Policy Research
former Member, Council of Economic Advisers
Annelise Anderson
Senior Research Fellow, The Hoover Institution
former Associate Director, Office of Management and Budget
Martin Anderson
Senior Fellow, The Hoover Institution
former Assistant to the President for Policy Development
Wayne Angell
Chief Economist, Bear Stearns
former Member, Federal Reserve Board
Gary S. Becker
University Professor of Economics, University of Chicago
Michael J. Boskin
Tully M. Friedman Professor of Economics, Stanford University
former Chairman, Council of Economic Adviser
John Cogan
Senior Fellow, The Hoover Institution
former Deputy Director, Office of Management and Budget
Martin Feldstein
Professor of Economics, Harvard University
President, National Bureau of Economic Research
former Chairman, Council of Economic Advisers
Peter M. Flanigan
Director, Dillion, Reed & Co., Inc
former Assistant to the President
Milton Friedman
Senior Research Fellow, The Hoover Institution
Wendy Lee Gramm
former Associate Director, Office of Management and Budget
former Chairman, Commodities Futures Trading Corporation
Carla A. Hills
Chairman & CEO, Hills & Company
former Special Trade Representative
former Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
Anne O. Krueger
Professor of Economics, Stanford University
President, American Economic Association
John P. Lipsky
Chief Economist & Managing Director, Solomon Brothers
Edwin Meese III
former Attorney General, Justice Department
Merton H. Miller
Robert R, McCormick Distinguished Professor,
University of Chicago Alan Reynolds
Alan Reynolds
Director of Economic Research, The Hudson Institute
former Res Dir., National Commission Economic
Growth and Tax Reform
John E. Robson
Senior Advisor, Robertson, Stephens & Company
former Deputy Secretary, Treasury Department
Judy Shelton
Member of the Board of Directors, Empower America
Thomas Sowell
Senior Fellow, The Hoover Institution
Walter Wriston
former Chairman & CEO, Citicorp
Darrell M. Trent, Executive Director
former Deputy Secretary, Transportation Department
DOLE/KEMP ECONOMIC TASK FORCES
List of Chairmen
I. Economic Growth: Gary S. Becker
II. Tax Reduction and Tax Reform: Michael Boskin
III. Budget and Spending Controls: John Cogan
IV. Regulation: Wendy Lee Gramm
V. Litigation: John E. Robson
VII. Privatization and Decentralization: Walter Wriston
VII. Education, Training and Out-placement: Peter M. Flanigan
VIII.International Trade and Investment: Carla Anderson Hills
IX. Implementation: Edwin Meese III
  