
    During the first week of National Hispanic Heritage Month, the Biden-Harris Administration took new steps to advance its commitment to uplift and empower the Hispanic community. President Biden attended the 76th annual Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (CHCI) gala, where he honored the accomplishments and contributions of the Latino community. Vice President Harris, participated in a discussion during the CHCI Leadership Conference where she discussed policy issues relevant to Latinos and encouraged the audience to take charge of their future through advocacy.
Last week, the Department of Education announced it was investing an additional $40 million in Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSIs). And, the federal government moved to maximize economic opportunities for Venezuelans in the U.S. by expanding Temporary Protected Status (TPS). Advancing his vision to empower the middle class, President Biden also continued to advocate for fair wages, opportunities for Latinos to access good jobs in innovative industries and investing in the future of our country.
Read about the Biden-Harris Administration's accomplishments for the Latino community:
El Tiempo Latino: Joe Biden highlighted Hispanic heritage as a "U.S. heritage" at the CHCI gala[Editorial Staff, 9/22/23]
[TRANSLATED FROM SPANISH]During the 46th annual Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (CHCI) gala, President Joe Biden highlighted the fundamental role of the Hispanic community, which represents approximately 19% of the total population of the United States. The US president highlighted the contribution of the Latino community as something significant to the legacy of the United States.
"We are the only country in the world built around the idea that we are all equal and have to be treated as such. We have never forgotten this, as our MAGA friends did," Biden said, referring to Republicans who identify with the motto "Make America Great Again." Furthermore, Biden stressed that the strength of the United States lies in the diversity of its population, greatly influenced by the values ??of the Hispanic community. She recognized that immigrants "have always represented the ideal of taking advantage of their opportunities and fulfilling dreams."
Biden used the platform to talk about the expansion and review of an immigration permit known as Temporary Protected Status (TPS). This modification will allow up to 472,000 Venezuelans, including residents since July 31, 2023, to reside and work legally in the United States. We are significantly expanding legal avenues of entry so companies can get the workers they need. "I have also directed my team to make historic increases in the number of refugees from Latin America," Biden said.
Biden also highlighted his economic strategies, often dubbed "Bidenomics." He noted that of the 13.5 million jobs created during his tenure, 4 million have been filled by Hispanics, and that the unemployment rate among Latinos is at historic lows. "In addition, there has been an increase in the number of Latinos who access health insurance by almost 1 million, thus closing the gap in access to prescription medications for elderly Latinos," he said at the CHCI annual event.
El Nuevo Dia: Joe Biden's administration allocates $40 million in funds for Hispanic serving educational institutions[Staff, 9/21/23]
[TRANSLATED FROM SPANISH]Joe Biden 's government announced this Thursday an investment of more than $40 million for educational institutions that serve Hispanics. "Latino students represent almost one in five college students across the United States," Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona stressed during a press conference when making the announcement. The resources are intended for Hispanic Serving Institutions (HSI) and seek to benefit Latinos and Latina women and strengthen studies in the areas of science and mathematics.
"The talent, vision and multilingual superpowers of Latino students will be the key to the future of our nation, the key to our prosperity, the key to our competitors," Cardona added. "As Latinos are a growing population, investing in this minority is an investment in the United States." Through the Hispanic Serving Institution Development program, 64 grants totaling more than $37 million were awarded to help HSIs expand educational opportunities and improve the achievement of Hispanic students.
El Pais: Biden extends protection against deportations to almost half a million Venezueleans[Luis Pablo Beauregard, 9/20/23]
[TRANSLATED FROM SPANISH]The Joe Biden Administration announced this Wednesday measures to expedite the bottleneck that the immigration system has created in many cities in the United States. The Government has revealed the second extension of the protection status granted to Venezuelans, popularly known as TPS (Temporary Protected Status). This will allow 470,000 citizens of the South American country who have crossed the border to obtain work permits and be shielded from being deported for 18 months. The program was announced a couple of years ago by Biden and expanded last summer by Alejandro Mayorkas, the head of Homeland Security. The measure will benefit Venezuelans who have arrived in the North American nation before July 31, 2023.
A source from the Department of Homeland Security has indicated that Biden's decision occurs because there are "extraordinary conditions" that do not allow the safe return of Venezuelans to their country. For this reason, the US Executive has granted a new extension for TPS, which expired in March 2024 and will now do so 18 months later. As of October 1, the Government will expedite work permit procedures for immigrants who have an appointment with the immigration authorities.
El Tiempo Latino: Joe Biden highlighted Hispanic heritage as a "U.S. heritage" at the CHCI gala[Editorial Staff, 9/22/23]
[TRANSLATED FROM SPANISH]During the 46th annual Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute (CHCI) gala, President Joe Biden highlighted the fundamental role of the Hispanic community, which represents approximately 19% of the total population of the United States. The US president highlighted the contribution of the Latino community as something significant to the legacy of the United States.
"We are the only country in the world built around the idea that we are all equal and have to be treated as such. We have never forgotten this, as our MAGA friends did," Biden said, referring to Republicans who identify with the motto "Make America Great Again." Furthermore, Biden stressed that the strength of the United States lies in the diversity of its population, greatly influenced by the values ??of the Hispanic community. She recognized that immigrants "have always represented the ideal of taking advantage of their opportunities and fulfilling dreams."
Biden used the platform to talk about the expansion and review of an immigration permit known as Temporary Protected Status (TPS). This modification will allow up to 472,000 Venezuelans, including residents since July 31, 2023, to reside and work legally in the United States. We are significantly expanding legal avenues of entry so companies can get the workers they need. "I have also directed my team to make historic increases in the number of refugees from Latin America," Biden said.
Biden also highlighted his economic strategies, often dubbed "Bidenomics." He noted that of the 13.5 million jobs created during his tenure, 4 million have been filled by Hispanics, and that the unemployment rate among Latinos is at historic lows. "In addition, there has been an increase in the number of Latinos who access health insurance by almost 1 million, thus closing the gap in access to prescription medications for elderly Latinos," he said at the CHCI annual event.
Telemundo: The First Lady at the Georgia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce to celebrate the start of Hispanic Heritage Month Atlanta, GA Noticias Telemundo[Noticias Telemundo WKTB 9/15/23]
[TRANSLATED FROM SPANISH]The First Lady was a special guest at the Georgia Hispanic Chamber of Commerce awards where she served as the opening speaker. In her speech, Biden highlighted the importance and positive impact that the Latino community has on the entire country and all its industries. "So today we are celebrating the amazing Latino leaders that have shaped our communities into more prosperous, more innovative, more equal places and leaving a lasting legacy in this state." The Mayor of Atlanta, Andrew Dickens, also greeted the awardees and celebrated the contribution of immigrants to the development of the city. Several local leaders were recognized in the organization's Hall of Fame, including the Mexico's General Consul, Javier Diaz de León, and the State Commissioner. John King. It is important to recognize the leaders of our community. We are growing as a population here in Georgia, we are more than 1.2 million Latinos. However, we still need to see our Latinos in influential leadership positions. We need representation in all areas of business and community, in education and more. We need to take advantage of these opportunities.
NBC News: Harris rallies for Biden's abortion rights and immigration priorities at Hispanic conference[Nicole Acevedo and Suzanne Gamboa, 9/20/23]
Vice President Kamala Harris and Latino members of President Joe Biden's Cabinet came out in force Wednesday to rally Latinos behind the administration's fight for abortion rights, health care access and more legal immigration pathways.At the annual Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute conference, Harris spoke to a largely supportive, packed crowd and said that the president "has been clear that when Congress puts back Roe v. Wade, he will sign that legislation ... That's why elections matter," she added.
Health and Human Services Secretary Xavier Becerra, the first Latino to head the Health and Human Services Department, said more Americans than ever, specifically Latinos and Blacks, have health insurance. Becerra said HHS is doing everything it can to make sure women continue to have access to health care, including emergency services.
Education Secretary Miguel Cardona said that under Biden's school debt relief plan, the debt of 1 in 2 Latinos would have been forgiven, but the Supreme Court struck down the plan. Cardona said the administration is working on other ways to help debt-laden students, including a new income-driven repayment plan and a crackdown on schools that prey on first-generation students with unkept promises of certain professional certificates, leaving them in heavy debt instead.
When asked about the recent surge of migrants, Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas touted the Biden administration's focus on building "lawful pathways" for migrants/immigrants to remain in the country. "We are incredibly proud to be a nation of immigrants," he said.
Addressing Latino attendees on the topic of business and the economy, Small Business Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman said the Biden administration has been addressing barriers to help Latino businesses, which she said are started at higher rates than the general population and contribute $800 billion to the U.S. economy.
BeLatina: Exclusive: Vice President Kamala Harris discusses how young Latino students can influence the nation's future[Guisell Gomez, 9/22/23]
As the United States commemorates Hispanic Heritage Month, one question looms large: Are Latino/e college students poised to redefine the nation's future? Well, Census data reveals some compelling statistics about young Latinos in higher education. With rising high school completion rates, increased college enrollment, and a surge in educational attainment, young Latinos are making significant strides in higher education within the United States.
In an exclusive interview with BeLatina, Vice President Harris shared insights about the "Fight for Freedoms College Tour" and how it can mobilize college students from historically overlooked communities to shape the nation's destiny. Vice President Harris's nationwide tour brings her to historically Black colleges, Hispanic-serving institutions, community colleges, and apprenticeship programs across the country. Her mission is clear: to remind these young leaders of the immense stakes they hold in shaping the future of their nation.
The "Fight for Freedoms College Tour" is a rallying cry for young individuals to embrace the freedom to lead fulfilling lives. This freedom encompasses the autonomy to make decisions about their bodies, the liberty to love without constraints, and, crucially, access to the ballot box to exercise their civic duty. The Vice President emphasizes that all these freedoms are currently at risk in our country. "I am in the Fight for Our Freedoms College Tour because I believe that all our young people should have the freedom to live their best lives," Vice President Harris said during a phone interview with BeLatina.
"President Biden and I have put a lot of resources into making sure that Latino small business owners have access to capital," said Vice President Harris. Furthermore, Vice President Harris revealed a commitment to increasing federal contracts for minority-owned businesses by 50 percent. She emphasized the importance of enabling entrepreneurship and economic growth within the Latino community.
Vice President Harris also spoke about the transformative power of voting, particularly for underserved communities like the Latino/e population. She described voting as one of the most effective means for individuals to make a difference in their communities and their country. Voting is the voice of the people, and it should not go unheard. "Voting is one of the most effective ways that you can make a difference," she explained. "And so, I think about the vote for each person as being about their voice. It's so important that people are not silent when there's so much at stake."
Spectrum News: Second gentleman Emhoff celebrates Hispanic Heritage Month — and small businesses — with a new haircut[Cassie Semyon, 9/18/23]
As Hispanic Heritage Month began Friday, second gentleman Doug Emhoff sat down for a haircut — though, presumably unlike most of his haircuts, this time he had an audience.
Emhoff and Small Business Administrator Isabel Guzman, one of the highest-ranking Latinas in the federal government, stopped in at the Cuts by Hugo barber shop with a small crowd of journalists, later visited restaurant El Tamarindo, in Washington's Adams Morgan neighborhood Friday
"Do I have to give haircuts to everyone today?" shop owner Hugo Gonzalez joked, looking at the crowd of political staffers and journalists.
The two were touring the town together to tout the Biden administration's commitment to small businesses — and specifically Latino-owned businesses.
Cuts by Hugo, which can be found in the National Press Club building, is owned by Gonzalez, a Paraguayan immigrant who has been cutting hair in Washington since 2001. Gonzales took over the shop in 2017 from the former owner.
Cuts by Hugo is also one of the millions of small businesses that was awarded a Paycheck Protection Program loan during the COVID pandemic to help keep small businesses open and employing workers. Gonzalez admitted the loan helped him stay afloat during the dark days of the pandemic.
According to the SBA, nearly 1 in 4 new businesses is Latino-owned, and Hispanic businesses employ about 1 million workers and counting. The White House says that Latino unemployment is "near record lows" and Latino-owned businesses are being created at the fastest rate in more than a decade.
Emhoff admitted a bit of embarrassment to reporters as Gonzalez snipped away with his shears. "This is one of the most personal things you can do, get a haircut. I get to do it in front of the national media," he laughed.
But the visit might give Gonzalez the boost he needs. While his appointment book for Friday was full, he says he's still recovering from the pandemic.
Before COVID, Gonzalez said, the shop employed four barbers plus himself. Now it's just him and one other as they continue to try and draw clients back into the barber chair.
  