
    
Over 1,000 people were in the Villages, Florida, a key Republican campaigning stop, last night to hear Marco Rubio's vision for a New American Century. The crowd filled not one but two overflow rooms.

Local NBC affiliate WESH-TV reports:
Senator Rubio got a rousing standing ovation when he took to the stage, then again when he talked about national security. … Rubio scored his longest, loudest applause of the day when he referred to a portrait in the Eisenhower Recreation Center, of the former president and general, saying it's time we increased the size of our military. "In the face of all of this danger, we are reducing our military and we know history proves, and the things on this wall prove, that the world is a safer place when America is the strongest military force on this planet," Rubio said. Rubio went on to say, "If I am ever blessed to be President of the United States, hopefully in about a year, not only will we have the strongest military in the world, but our allies will trust us and our adversaries will respect us," Rubio said.

The Tampa Bay Times:
"We cannot simply promote the next person in line or the most familiar name," Rubio said, warning that without new leadership the country may leave the next generation with less opportunity than had been left for the current generation. He talked broadly about cutting regulations, expanding domestic energy production, beefing up the military, repealing Obamacare and putting greater emphasis on promoting vocational education.

Some individuals who were impressed with Marco:
Mike Fleming says that he's supporting Marco because he's the outside who can change in Washington. From the Associated Press:
Mike Fleming, 60, who is originally from Michigan and retired to The Villages a year ago, supports Rubio because he sees him as "an outsider" who "is the kind of change we need in Washington."

Saundra Ciliberto says that need Marco represents the GOP's best hope of winning back the White House. From the Guardian:
We need someone to win — we need to change the office, and I think we have a better chance with someone who's younger.

Carl Blankship says that Marco is the perfect person to lead us in the 21st Century. From the Tampa Bay Times:
It's time that a younger generation step forward to take up the reins, and I think Sen. Rubio is the perfect person.

Charlie Weill says Marco knows the government needs to protect our country from looming threats. From the Associated Press:
According to Charlie Weill, 65, Rubio knows the federal government's role is "to protect the country" and to "get out of the way" of the economy.

Paul Bova says that Marco has an uplifting message about his vision for the 21st Century. From the Guardian:
Paul Bova, 74, said he found Rubio "very uplifting" and was not at all anxious about his age.

2 overflow rooms at The Villages for @marcorubio, 500+ ppl pic.twitter.com/leSqtLhCkM
— Adam Smith (@adamsmithtimes) September 28, 2015

And here's the front page of the Villages' paper:

  