
    The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Pennsylvania Lt. Governor Catherine Baker Knoll.
"The time has passed for finger-pointing about what's gone wrong in our country. The question before us is: "Who can make it right?" I have a two-word answer to that question: Hillary Clinton," Lt. Governor Knoll said. "She's ready to lead this nation from her first day in the White House, like great leaders of another time, she is here when we need her most."
Catherine Baker Knoll was elected in 2003 and became the first woman Lieutenant Governor in Pennsylvania history. During her tenure, she has worked closely with Governor Ed Rendell to promote Prescription for Pennsylvania, which would provide healthcare coverage for everyone in the Keystone State. Baker Knoll has also led efforts to expand Pennsylvania's use of alternative energies to reduce the state's reliance on foreign oil.
The Lieutenant Governor serves as Chairwoman of the Pennsylvania Emergency Management Council, and has spearheaded a number of statewide initiatives such as Project ChildSafe through the National Lieutenant Governor's Association.
Prior to becoming Lieutenant Governor, Knoll served as Pennsylvania Treasurer from 1989 to 1997, streamlining and modernizing the state's financial operations and investing in new technologies. She was also instrumental in building a High Tech Investment Center that saved Pennsylvania hundreds of millions of dollars through increased efficiency by returning nearly two billion dollars in interest to the Commonwealth.
Baker Knoll has taken a leading role in Pennsylvania and nationally on issues important to her constituents, including: Serving on the AFL-CIO Housing and Building Board of Trustees; Chairing the Pension Committee of the National Association of State Treasurers; creating Pennsylvania's Student Tuition Account Program (TAP) and small business loan programs for women and minorities.
"Catherine has been a champion for Pennsylvania's working families, and I'm delighted she'll help lead our efforts in the Keystone State," Clinton said.
  