
    The plan would create 46 million direct jobs and dramatically increase union density in the construction sector
(SAN FRANCISCO, September 9, 2019) — Today, Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer released a memo analyzing the jobs created under his Justice-Centered Climate Plan. The analysis, conducted by climate labor expert Betony Jones, found that the plan could create 46 million jobs over ten years and dramatically increase union density in the construction sector. It does not include indirect jobs, those created in the supply chain, and induced jobs, those created by the economic impact of the direct workers in their communities. Indirect and induced jobs would number in the millions more.
"Tom is the only candidate to demonstrate the urgency necessary to tackle the climate crisis. This analysis conclusively shows that Tom is the best candidate on climate," said Campaign Manager Heather Hargreaves. "Our plan spends far fewer taxpayer dollars than most other candidates in the field, while achieving far greater results. Winning the battle on climate change will require significant public-private partnership, not just promising huge amounts of federal money."
The Steyer plan will create these jobs through building new and upgrading existing infrastructure, a clean energy grid, and a Civilian Climate Corps. Jones, a White House veteran whose career has focused on the labor impacts of climate policy, said:
"Tom's plan reflects a critical analysis of where investments are most needed to transform our economy. Investing in a low-carbon future creates real work for real people across many different industries, across every region of the U.S. Workers employed in the fossil fuel industries possess critical skills and experience that we will need to rapidly decarbonize our economy. They and others have a significant role to play, and Tom's plan reflects a commitment to making sure the work of tomorrow is safer and better paying than the work of today."
Tom Dalzell, a labor leader at the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 1245, which represents California's largest utility, told Politico recently, "I think Steyer's probably the only one who knows what he's talking about who has experience with it."
The report, which includes a breakdown of infrastructure investments, clean energy targets, and jobs numbers, is available on the campaign website here.
  