
    Pool Reports by Noah Bierman, Los Angeles Times



Sent:
Reports:




 September 16, 2020 10:44

 In-town pool #1 -- check in 
Good morning from the White House. Members of the pool are being tested to start the day. POTUS has no public events scheduled so far. A 1 p.m. briefing with the press secretary has been added. 


 September 16, 2020 12:00

 in-town pool #2 -- lunch lid and Meadows tease 
We have a lunch lid until 1p.m. Mark Meadows spoke with reporters a few minutes ago and I'll be getting notes on that out shortly. 


 September 16, 2020 12:05

 In-town pool #3 Meadows gaggle 
Mark Meadows gaggled for 16 minutes on the driveway. Topics include stimulus negotiations, Tik Tok/Oracle, vaccine development, heard immunity, healthcare bill/executive action:
Stimulus, what did President Trump learn an hour before the town hall that gave him optimism?:
"I don't want to get into my personal conversations with the president but it's obviously a conversation that I had with him as it relates to not only the problem solvers caucus proposal that I thought was very thoughtful and actually is, in a way, very meaningful if you're looking at Republicans and Democrats coming together in a bipartisan way to put forth something that they believe that they could actually support. They don't speak for this speaker I think she's been very clear about that in the last 12 hours. But if it provides a foundation where there's really a desire to do a deal, we're encouraged by that."
"If the speaker is saying she's willing to stay in until a deal gets done, that's also another encouraging sign, and yet I've been around Congress long enough to know that promises on air, don't necessarily provide real fruit behind closed doors. But I will, I will say this, that I've had a number of conversations with Democrats on Capitol Hill, and not just the problem solvers caucus but a number of others. And I think there's a growing sense that there's still some real needs that need to be addressed. And I've tried to express the willingness on behalf of the White House to openly address them."
Sticking points?:
"Probably the biggest obstacle continues to be the amount of money that is outlined for state and local health. Even in the problem solvers caucus initiative, it was some 500 billion, but there was a caveat there that was based on real revenue losses, and that caveat gives me hope that if we're willing to look at real facts and real losses that hopefully we can get to, to something that actually makes sense."
What would the admin give up in negotiations?
"I'm not going to negotiate here in front of 320 5 million people, but I can tell you that we've shown a great degree of flexibility. Even hopefully with the supportive statements that I'm making right now as it relates to the problem solvers caucus proposal. I know I've been on speed dial with with Tom Reed on the Republican side the congressman from New York. He is actually been more of the go between, between him and the Democrat colleagues that are members and problem solvers, wanting to make sure that I don't interfere with their deliberative process, but also trying to give them some guidance in terms of what we see our real stumbling blocks. The end the biggest stumbling block is if we use this pandemic as a bailout mechanism for poorly run states that perhaps have not been as fiscally responsible is some others. I think I think that would be a, a very difficult hurdle to overcome."
Is herd immunity a strategy by the White House?
"It's never been a strategy. I think that early on, I can tell you back in March when I first got here and wasn't even really sworn in as the Chief of Staff, there were a number of people that said that there's a couple of ways that we can look at this and, and the President rightfully made the decision: We need to see if we can mitigate the damages as much as possible provide for hospital capacity, ventilator capacity. Put a fast track on therapeutics and vaccines and that continues to be our, not only our official but our unofficial tack at and hitting this. I will say that there are a number of individuals that would indicate that herd immunity -- once we get the antibodies -- and you're already in ways I believe seeing that in New York City, because you have a lower contagion rate, because they experienced such a high … but they lost so many lives and so that is not something that, that the White House chose to employ. It's something that we believe, by not going that route saved lives and it's why we shut down the economy. It's why we continue to work in rapid speed for vaccines. That being said, to discount the fact that there are a number of people out there that believe that ultimately this doesn't get solved until we reach that herd immunity population, even some of the, you know, the more renowned doctors have suggested that could possibly be indeed, the answer.
Where is the health care plan and why hasn't it been rolled out?
"We will be rolling it out I can tell you … before the election … I can tell you that that he's [Trump] right, that it is ready, we've been making a number of not only tweaks but modifications to that legislation."
Legislation or executive action?
"Well, I think if we look at legislation, we know that nothing ever gets done in Congress. We can't even agree to a coronavirus issue. So part of why we the delay is that we've had to look at what were the legislative parts of that proposal and say, 'let's look at the legislative side put it over in this box, what can we do administratively,' and we've had to get very very creative in with executive powers to try to figure out what we can do to substantially affect the health care costs and bring it down through executive action. So it's more of an executive action with a legislative component that is more visionary. But indeed, I'm not as optimistic that we get Congress to come together in a bipartisan way. Part of that is that you still have a group that campaigned for getting the Affordable Care Act that still believes the Affordable Care Act is affordable. And so, getting them to change their mind becomes very difficult."
Vaccine approved in three or four weeks away?
"Here's what we have is from an optimistic standpoint: I know two things. One is with the number of trials that we currently have in place, Jeremy. We have a real hope of getting something that actually works. And that the efficacy of that actually saves a lot of save lives. Whether that happens in two weeks. Whether it happens in two months, I can tell you there's one person that sits in an Oval Office that daily is asking me how much progress have we made? Where are we going?"
Which vaccine makers?
"It would affect markets. I'm not going to do that."
"I can speak to Pfizer because I've actually talked to the Pfizer CEO. He's been public with those comments and so I'm not saying anything different than what he shared with me in private, but they're very optimistic that they can have something by the by the end of October. And so, worst case scenario, we're talking six weeks based on his personal testimony, there are others that suggest a more aggressive timeline."
"I've invested in in pharmaceuticals at phase three. I know that with each phase three that until it's done and you know that it works, you don't have anything. But I do know that this is going to happen much faster, and we'll get to a yes or no on whether it works at record speed."
Indoor rally safety, will you keep doing them?
"Well, as, as you know, with regards to indoor spaces or an outdoor spaces any rally is a voluntary participation."
"Our first priority has been, will remain to do the outside, what I call hangar rallies. That's the reason why we took that model and we continue to do that. And yet at the same time, whether they wear a mask, we certainly encourage them to wear a mask and those confines, and it is not our desire to put anybody at risk. And yet, this is one of the things that makes America great is that you can make individual choices for yourself. And, and we're going to continue to do what we can to make sure that we get the President's message out."
Tik Tok, what does President think of Republican concerns over Oracle and have you, Jared Kushner or president been in touch with Safra Catz or Larry Ellison?:
"I don't know that Jared would have been in contact…Obviously, any deal that gets made or doesn't get made -- is certainly one between them and tick tock, we've got to make sure that the national security interest that they're protected and that the whole reason for banning Tick Tock was more from a national security standpoint than an economic one. And, and to look at the details of that deal, I know it was probably the number one asked question yesterday, was there a deal was there not a deal? But we're going to continue to review and make sure the interest of the American people. is protected."
Sec Azar/Sen. Chuck Schumer's call for resignation?
"Chuck Schumer is talking about something that he obviously doesn't know about. I was on the phone three times last night was Secretary Azar. He still has complete confidence of the president United States thanks guys. 


 September 16, 2020 13:25

 in-town pool report #4 -- briefing 2-minute warning 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.] 


 September 16, 2020 13:59

 in-town pool #5 -- briefing over 
The briefing has ended. 


 September 16, 2020 15:25

 In-town pool #6 Kudlow and added POTUS presser 
You probably saw that the press office announced that President Trump will come to the podium at 5 p.m. for a news conference.
Larry Kudlow gaggled with reporters for a few minutes on the driveway, speaking very optimistically about the economy and jobs outlook. He was asked a number of times about Tik Tok but was non-committal. Here are some highlights:
Do you support the president seeking more money in stimulus talks than the GOP Senate?
"Of course I support the president… I will go with what he wants. I've said, my own view is particularly two areas: Small business. Let's lengthen the PPP. I think that's important. And secondly, special assistance to school opening. Kids, jobs. You know, I just think those are high, high priorities. I wish the Senate had passed them a few weeks ago."
How do you close the employment gap if it takes 6 to 9 months to get everyone vaccinated as Dr. Redfield forecast?
"We just keep reopening. The fundamentals of the economy -- it's a very incentive oriented economy -- lower taxes, massive deregulation across the board, fair trade deals for exports…. Census Bureau put out the median household income numbers yesterday record high 68,000 per household 68, plus. Huge numbers….our fundamentals of the economy are very strong. Let's not forget that."
"The President will be adding to that. He's looking for more middle class tax cuts, including a payroll tax. He's looking for more deregulation. Okay, and more U.S.-centric trade deals. …The stimulus measures -- so called – they're really assistance measures, are still temporary palliatives and we're not finished yet. The virus is not over and not every business is reopened."
"But that's the way I see it… a lot of momentum in the economy right."
TikTok?
"All that's being looked at. I don't want to speak for anybody. It's a very confidential process, but security is paramount, with respect to information leaking out to China, and ownership is important. …. We're in a deep review process right now."
Why hasn't there been a health plan as the president has repeatedly promised?
"Well we've put out a lot. We just had additional executive orders on drug pricing and rebates. We put out a lot continuously. I can't go through the whole list in my head. …We're not going to have our own massive centrally-planned government run detail the way the prior administration did that…We're just looking at pro-market reforms, accessibility, lower prices, what's good for consumers across the board. We've think done a very good job. We've improved the system enormously. And we've gotten rid of the excessive mandates tell." 


 September 16, 2020 16:59

 in-town pool report #7 -- POTUS briefing moved back 
President Trump tweeted that he would be speaking to the press at 5:45. 


 September 16, 2020 17:11

 in-town pool report #8 -- presser moved back to 5:15 
President Trump tweeted again, saying it will be at 5:15. Stay tuned. 


 September 16, 2020 17:14

 In-town pool report #9 -- two minute warning 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.] 


 September 16, 2020 17:19

 In-town pool report #10 -- briefing begins 
POTUS entered the briefing room at 5:17.
President Trump spoke about Hurricane Sally at the top of his remarks. He urged affected residents to follow instructions of local and federal officials.
Chairs to the side were occupied by Scott Atlas and Kayleigh McEnany, who had one seat between them unoccupied but no masks. They entered before POTUS. 


 September 16, 2020 18:17

 In-town pool #11 -- briefing ends 
The president left the briefing room at 6:15. 


 September 16, 2020 18:59

 In-town pool #12 — headed to Capitol Hill Club 
?Motorcade began rolling at 6:59 toward the Capitol Hill Club, where POTUS is scheduled to deliver remarks at the National Republican Congressional Committee Battleground Dinner.The event is closed press. Trump left from the Oval with a small group of people that pooler could not make out from a distance. 


 September 16, 2020 19:09

 In-town pool #13 — arrival 
?The motorcade arrived at the Capitol Hill Club at 7:07 after an uneventful ride. Pooler did not see POTUS exit. Pool is holding. 


 September 16, 2020 20:44

 In-town pool #14 — leaving Capitol Hill Club 
?Motorcade rolling at 8:43 toward White House. Pool did not see POTUS enter the Beast. 


 September 16, 2020 20:52

 In-town pool report #15 — arrival 
?Motorcade arrived at the White House at 8:51 after a non-eventful ride. 


 September 16, 2020 20:54

 In-town pool #16 — lid 
?Travel/photo lid. 



  