
    
"Our workers are the most innovative, the hardest-working, the best-skilled, most productive, most competitive in the world. That's the American worker. And my opponents may disagree, but those fundamentals -- the American worker and their innovation, their entrepreneurship, the small business, those are the fundamentals of America, and I think they're strong. But they are being threatened today." -- John McCain
John McCain
Remarks
Orlando, FL
September 15, 2008
John McCain: "I'd like to just mention a couple of things to you, and first of all a little straight talk. As you well know, we are seeing tremendous upheaval on Wall Street. The American economy is in a crisis. It is in a crisis. People tonight will be sitting around the kitchen table, trying to figure out how they're going to stay in their homes, how they're going to keep their jobs, how they're going to put food on the table. And America is in a crisis today. Unemployment is on the rise, and our financial markets are in turmoil. People are concerned about our economic future. But let me say something, the economic crisis is not the fault of the American people.
"Our workers are the most innovative, the hardest-working, the best-skilled, most productive, most competitive in the world. That's the American worker. And my opponents may disagree, but those fundamentals -- the American worker and their innovation, their entrepreneurship, the small business, those are the fundamentals of America, and I think they're strong. But they are being threatened today. Those fundamentals are being threatened today because of the greed and corruption that some engaged in on Wall Street, and we have got to fix it. And we have got to reform the way that they do business. And frankly my friends, our workers have been the strength of our economy, and they remain the strength of our economy today. And those fundamentals are threatened, they are threatened and at risk because some on Wall Street have treated Wall Street like a casino. So, we're going to fix it. And their efforts are not being matched at the top. From Washin gton to Wall Street, the top of our economy is broken.
"We've seen self-interest, greed, irresponsibility, and corruption undermine these hardworking American people. We're going to put an end to the abuses in Washington and on Wall Street that have resulted in a crisis that we are seeing unfold today.
"Enough is enough. Enough is enough. We're going to reform the way that Wall Street does business and put an end to the greed that has driven our markets into chaos. We'll stop multimillion-dollar payouts to CEOs that have broken the public trust.
"And we'll put an end, as I said, to running Wall Street like a casino. We'll make businesses work for the benefit of their shareholders and their employees, and we'll make sure that your savings, IRAs, 401k and pensions are protected." 
 Watch John McCain 
  