
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Romney for President announced that Ryan Whitaker's video, "Ready for Action" is the winner of the "Team Mitt: Create Your Own Ad!" contest. The contest is an unprecedented initiative that empowers supporters to create the campaign's newest television advertisement by remixing or "mashing up" a large variety of the campaign's photos, videos and audio clips, as well as their own multimedia content.
Whitaker, a 23 year-old college student from Provo, Utah, will become the first amateur ever to have his work used as an official television advertisement for a presidential campaign. Created using the online video editing tools of Yahoo! and Jumpcut.com, Whitaker's ad was the clear favorite in the contest, receiving the most views and the most "love" of all 129 submissions, and receiving 47% of the votes cast among the nine finalists highlighted at MittRomney.com.
Alex Castellanos, Senior Adviser and media strategist to Governor Romney, said, "Ryan's ad is the first, but it certainly won't be the last. This revolutionary use of user-generated content empowers our grassroots supporters and their efforts immeasurably strengthen our campaign."
The ad will be personally introduced by Governor Romney at the culmination of the final Rally for Romney tomorrow. Rally for Romney is a nationwide grassroots fundraising initiative designed to mobilize and empower volunteers across the country to build support at the grassroots level. This week Rally for Romney call days are taking place in more than 50 cities, in 25 states. The dates and locations of all Rally for Romney events can be found at www.MittRomney.com/Rally.
The ad will air once a day for a week in five Iowa and New Hampshire media markets, beginning Wednesday, October 3. Scripts and viewing links are below.
Script For "Ready for Action":
GOVERNOR MITT ROMNEY: "The right course for America in a world where evil still exists is not acquiescence and weakness, it's assertiveness and strength.
"We believe in a strong military. We believe in a strong economy. We believe in strong families and values.
"There is not one challenge that America faces that we can't overcome with the innovation and energy and passion, which has always been at the heart of America.
"It is time to cut out the mountains of waste and inefficiency and duplication in the federal government. I've done that in business, I've done it in the Olympics, I've done it in Massachusetts. And, frankly, I can't wait to get my hands on Washington.
"Now is the time, this is the place for us to lead a great coalition of strength.
"For our families, for our future, for America."
Before broadcast as an official television advertisement, Romney for President will append appropriate disclaimers to comply with federal election law.
To view "Ready for Action", please click the image or the link below: http://www.mittromney.com/YourAdWinner
  