
    Regulations are choking America's economy, imposing an invisible tax of $1.9 trillion every year — that's $15,000 per family.
During his time in the White House, President Obama has added roughly $3,100 per second in regulatory burdens to the economy.
Think what America could be and the prosperity we could experience if we took off the shackles from government rules and rule makers. My goal as president would be to set new, reasonable standards for the government agencies that issue rules that choke economic activity and opportunity.
As president, I will use my executive authority to do the following:
First, we will require regulators to live within a budget — for every one dollar of regulatory cost they propose, they will need to also propose ways to save an equivalent dollar through regulatory relief. We will implement a "one in, one out" regulatory budget. A rule like this would have avoided roughly $99 billion in regulatory costs over the Obama presidency.
Second, we will enhance and enforce presidential control over regulations. Regulations will not be issued unless regulators have identified a major market or policy failure that new regulations are likely to solve. They will need to show that state-based solutions are insufficient and that benefits outweigh costs. And we will expect regulators to strictly adhere to the plain, ordinary meaning of constitutional and statutory limitations. I will also sign the REINS Act into law, empowering Congress to approve or reject, through a simple majority vote, regulations that impose outsized burdens on the economy.
Third, we will establish a two-year deadline for completing federal permitting process — including environmental impact reviews — for major infrastructure projects that are mired in delays stretching up to a decade or more. We will get highway, port, bridge and other critical projects going, creating jobs and growing our economy.
Last we will repeal or reform the most onerous Obama rules and regulations. That starts with:

Dodd-Frank
Waters of the United States Rule
The Carbon Rule
The Coal Ash Rule
Net Neutrality

Together, we will roll back the surging tide of regulations that have overtaken us the last 6 and a half years.
Learn More
  