
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

In a society that focuses much attention on physical appearance, looking "different" can be very difficult -- especially for a child. Children who have some kind of craniofacial deformity often experience rejection and emotional isolation as well. Fortunately, however, a number of organizations throughout the United States and around the world are working to help young people with craniofacial disfigurement.
The International Craniofacial Foundations, Inc., its affiliated centers, the National Foundation for Facial Reconstruction, and other concerned organizations fund research and education programs designed to aid those affected by craniofacial deformity. Seeking out individuals who can benefit from their services, these organizations have also funded surgical and nonsurgical treatment for more than 10,000 patients throughout the United States and 12 countries.
Efforts to ease the burdens of the youngest sufferers of craniofacial deformities -- to give them a fighting chance -- merit recognition. This week, we pay tribute to the dedicated men and women who are working on behalf of these special children and their families.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 515 (Public Law 101-371), has designated the week beginning September 16, 1990, as "National Give the Kids a Fighting Chance Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 16, 1990, as National Give the Kids a Fighting Chance Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  