
    Pool Reports by Bricio Segovia, MVS Radio 



Sent:
Reports:




September 2, 2021 14:49

VP Pool Report #1 / Gathering for Ken Salazar Swearing-in
Good afternoon,
I will be your pooler for Ken Salazar swearing-in ceremony as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary to the United Mexican States. It is a sunny, yet not too hot, day at the White House (79ºF) thanks to a lovely breeze. Your pooler has been covid tested.
Pool is gathered outside the West Wing and is waiting to be escorted to the Vice President's Ceremonial Office in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building (EEOB), where the event will take place. Vice President Kamala Harris will administer the oath. The ceremony is scheduled for 3:00PM EST.
Ken Salazar was the first of President Joe Biden's ambassador nominees to be confirmed by the Senate, which on August 11th voted unanimously to approve his nomination. He was Secretary of the Interior under the Obama Administration (2009-2013) and, prior to that, he served as a senator for Colorado (2005-2009).


September 2, 202115:12

VP Pool Report #2 / Waiting for Ken Salazar Swearing-in
Pool is waiting at the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building, where Ken Salazar swearing-in ceremony will take place.
Your pooler requested a list of attendees and will send it as soon as he gets a response from the VP Office.
The event was scheduled for 3:00 PM but an official from the VP Office just told us it is running late.
The VP Ceremonial Office is a grand room with a nautical motif. A large golden mirror sits on a fireplace in the center of the stage. Two American flags and two VP flags are on the right of the fireplace, and next to them there is a wooden armoir with mockups of the State, War, and Navy Department Building, as well as of the USS Indianapolis (CA-35); a photograph of Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels (1913); and other nautical objects. Your pooler noticed a new addition: a photo of Midshipman First Class Sydney Barber (USNA 2021) and her shoulder boards. MIDN Barber is the first Black woman to serve as the Brigade Commander for the US Naval Academy.
The wall paint of the room is an old baby blue and has several murals. The room is completed with an hexagon design wood flooring.


September 2, 202115:44

VP Pool Report #3 / Ken Salazar Swearing-in over + Photos/Video
The event began at 3:15 PM EST and lasted less than two minutes. It took place in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office, in the Eisenhower Executive Office Building.
The Vice President entered the room first followed by Ken Salazar and Stephanie Valencia, former Press Secretary of Salazar when he served as US Senator (D-CO). She carried the Bible used for the oath and Ambassador Salazar, one of his characteristic hats that he left on a chair right away. They all wore black face masks. Salazar and Valencia wore yellow wrist bands, which means they were Covid tested.
VPOTUS and Ambassador Salazar were wearing grey suits.
They all stood in front of the flags and VPOTUS said "are you ready?" before asking Ambassador Salazar to put her hand on the Bible, held by Ms. Valencia. Then, she proceeded with the oath. Salazar stumbled towards the end of the oath.
Staffers clapped and Ambassador Salazar shook the VP's hand and then gave her a hug. They posed for the photographers for a few seconds and the VP concluded the event by saying "Congratulations!" to the Ambassador. They all exited the room, then.
Your pooler asked Ambassador Salazar if he was excited about his new position but he didn't respond.
The VP didn't answer to shouted questions on the Texas law.
Pool was escorted out shortly after.
Photo and video of the event taken with your pooler's phone can be downloaded here: https://we.tl/t-KnCltoHt02
FYI this is the oath that Ambassador Salazar repeated after the VP: "I, Ken Salazar, do solemnly swear that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States against all enemies foreign and domestic, that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same, that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose of evasion, that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office upon which I'm about to enter, so help me God."
This is all from me today, folks. Have a great rest of your day!



  