
    Mitt Romney today welcomed the support of Colorado elected officials and leaders.
"Colorado is an important state in my campaign," said Mitt Romney. "It means a lot to have the support of so many great officials and leaders in the state. I look forward to working with them as I campaign across Colorado spreading my pro-growth economic message."
"Coloradans are looking for a change in the White House," said Secretary of State Scott Gessler. "President Obama has had three years to turn around the economy and he has failed. Mitt Romney has the experience in the private sector that will be needed to get our economy back on track."
Announcing her support, State Senator Nancy Spence said, "Mitt Romney's record is unmatched. In addition to his successful record as governor, his twenty-five years of experience in the private sector make him the best candidate to lead an economic recovery."
"President Obama's policies have failed to grow the economy and create jobs," said House Majority Whip B.J. Nikkel. "In contrast to the President's record of job losses and increased spending, Mitt Romney created jobs and cut spending as governor – that is why Colorado voters will support him at the caucuses and in the general election."
State Representative Cindy Acree said, "Whether it is his twenty-five years of experience in the private sector, his leadership during the 2002 Winter Olympics or his record as governor, Mitt Romney has displayed the leadership we need to get our country back on track."
"After three years of failure, it is clear we need a leader who understands how the economy works," said State Representative Robert Ramirez. "Mitt Romney has worked in the real economy and understands what is needed to grow the economy and create jobs."
Colorado Elected Officials And Leaders Endorsing Mitt Romney

Scott Gessler, Colorado Secretary of State
Kyle Hybl, CU Regent, 5th Congressional District
Nancy Spence, State Senator
B.J. Nikkel, House Majority Whip
Cindy Acree, State Representative
Robert Ramirez, State Representative
Victor Mitchell, Former State Representative
Bob Balink, El Paso County Treasurer
Jack Hilbert, Douglas County Commissioner
Barbara Brewer, Mesa County Assessor
Garry Brewer, Former Mesa County GOP Chairman
Katie Witt, Longmont City Council Member

Previously Announced Members Of Mitt Romney's Colorado Leadership Committee

Senator Hank Brown
Governor Bill Owens
Senator Wayne Allard
Attorney General John Suthers
Congressman Bob Beauprez
Claudia Beauprez
Colorado Treasurer Walker Stapleton
University Of Colorado Regent-At-Large Steve Bosley

  