
    "Four years into a presidency and it's incomplete? The President is asking people just to be patient with him? Look, Charlie, the kind of recession we had, we should be bouncing out of it, creating jobs. We're not creating jobs at near the pace we could. That's why we're offering big solutions for the big problems we have today."  –Paul Ryan
This Morning
CBS
September 4, 2012
Click Here To Watch Paul Ryan
CHARLIE ROSE: "All right, here is what the President said in answering the question about fixing the economy. He said what grade he would give himself. He said 'I would say an incomplete, but what I would say is that steps that we have taken to saving the auto industry and making sure that college is more affordable and investing in clean energy and science and technology and research, those are all the things that we're going to need to grow over the long term.' That's from the President."
PAUL RYAN: "Four years into a presidency and it's incomplete? The President is asking people just to be patient with him? Look, Charlie, the kind of recession we had, we should be bouncing out of it, creating jobs. We're not creating jobs at near the pace we could. That's why we're offering big solutions for the big problems we have today. And I would just say, if you take a look at the President's policies, he said he calls them investments. It's borrowing money and spending money through Washington, picking winners and losers, spending money on favorites,  people like Solyndra or Fisker, picking winners and losers in the economy through spending, through tax breaks, through regulations does not work. If that kind of economics worked, we would be entering a golden age along with Greece. That doesn't work. So, I think the incomplete speaks for itself. And that is why I think we are going to win this and get this country back on the right track because we're offering bold solutions. The Romney Plan for a Stronger Middle Class is a five-point plan that to get people back to work and we think it's going to work."
  