
    Today, Paid Leave for the U.S. Action Fund (PL+US Action), a campaign advocating the passage of paid family and medical leave for all Americans by 2022, announced its endorsement of Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for President and Vice President of the United States. In its endorsement of the Biden-Harris ticket, PL+US Action highlighted Vice President Biden's plan for the caregiving economy – one of the four prongs of his Build Back Better Plan.
PL+US Action Fund issued the following press release:
PL+US Action Fund Endorses Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for President and Vice President
"Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are the leaders we need to win a national paid leave policy and create a new normal for millions of working families," said PL+US Action Fund Founder and Executive Director Katie Bethell
Washington D.C.- Today, Paid Leave for the U.S. Action Fund (PL+US Action) proudly announced its endorsement of Joe Biden for President and Kamala Harris for Vice President. This announcement marks the first time PL+US Action has endorsed a presidential ticket and follows the introduction of the 2020 Champions for Paid Leave program which highlights policymakers and candidates who support a high quality national paid family and medical leave.
"Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are the leaders we need to win a national paid leave policy and create a new normal for millions of working families. As a parent and a caregiver, Joe Biden knows firsthand how important it is to have access to paid leave. With our support, he can be a President who will fight for our families, unify our communities, and pass a common sense national paid leave policy," said Katie Bethell, Founder and Executive Director of PL+US and PL+US Action Fund.
As part of his Build Back Better plan, Biden has proposed a national paid family leave program that includes up to 12 weeks of paid leave for all types of caregiving, including maternity and paternity leave, caring for one's own serious medical condition, and caring for an ill family member. He has made caregiving and the caregiving economy central to his economic recovery plans. During the Presidential primary, Kamala Harris included a high quality paid leave proposal as a core component of her platform.
PL+US Action is making a historic investment of resources in engaging voters on paid leave and endorsing a slate of top Paid Leave Champions in the 2020 election.
In addition to the Biden-Harris endorsement, PL+US Action recently endorsed three Paid Leave Champions running for U.S. Senate: Theresa Greenfield (IA), Cal Cunningham (NC), and Mark Kelly (AZ). PL+US Action is running a political and voter contact program focused on supporting these candidates and turning out voters across Arizona, North Carolina, and Iowa, where incumbents voted to strip paid leave from COVID relief.
PL+US Action determined its endorsements from candidate's responses to a questionnaire, their platform or record of support for paid family leave legislation, and how their policies compared to those of their competitors.
PL+US Action conducted a survey in April 2020 of likely voters in the battleground states of Arizona, North Carolina and Iowa.
Key takeaways include:

Support for a national paid family and medical leave policy is very high across the battleground (83 percent total support)
Voters in these states view Paid Leave as a top policy proposal to address the current coronavirus crisis
There is very strong support (90 percent) for expanding emergency paid leave included in current COVID relief to small businesses (including 63 percent strongly favor).

  