
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individual to key positions in his Administration:
Lynne M. Tracy of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia.
Ms. Tracy is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, currently serving as Senior Advisor for Russia Affairs at the U.S. Department of State. Previously, she served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Russia, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Central Asia in the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs at the Department of State, Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Ashgabat, Turkmenistan, and Principal Officer at the U.S. Embassy Branch Office in Astana, Kazakhstan. Additionally, Ms. Tracy served as the Principal Officer at the U.S. Consulate in Peshawar, Pakistan, where she was awarded the Secretary's Award for Heroism. She is the recipient of the State Department's Distinguished Honor Award. Ms. Tracy earned her B.A. from the University of Georgia and J.D. from the University of Akron. She speaks Russian.
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Alexander Herrgott of Arizona to be the Executive Director of the Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council.
Mr. Herrgott is the current Associate Director for Infrastructure at the Council on Environmental Quality. Previously, he served as a staff member in the Office of U.S. Senator Inhofe and on the Environment and Public Works Committee. Additionally, Mr. Herrgott served as Director of Transportation and Infrastructure for Congressional and Public Affairs at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. After his tenure, he returned to Senator Inhofe's office and served as Legislative Director and Deputy Staff Director for the Senate Environment and Public Works Committee.
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities:

Aminta H. Breaux of Maryland
James E. Clark of Florida
Phyllis Dawkins of North Carolina
Rodney A. Ellis of Louisiana
Marshall C. Grigsby of Maryland
Billy Harkins of Alabama
Jerry M. Hunter of Missouri
Nickolas Justice of North Carolina
Ronald A. Johnson of Georgia
Harold L. Martin Sr. of North Carolina
Bernard J. Milano of New Jersey
Connie Rath of Nebraska
Kevin Wilson Williams of Tennessee

  