
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

All of us, and people around the world as well, appreciate the men and women of American agriculture whose knowledge, skills, and hard work enable them to provide so much of our food and fiber. Because of the high rates of occupational and nonoccupational mishaps they incur, however, we also express our concern for the safety and health of these fellow citizens and their children and our pride in their efforts in behalf of farm and ranch safety as they go about daily living.
Fortunately, many disabling and fatal work and off-the-job injuries and illnesses are preventable, and in simple and practical ways. We can invariably work, drive, and live safely by taking full advantage of protective equipment and other safeguards and by using extra care throughout the day. Many engineering improvements in the tools of agriculture have been made through the years, and they have been a great boon. But individuals also make a difference in eliminating risks from agriculture and rural living by their willingness and ability to exercise care and expertise in every daily activity, whether at work or play, whether at home or on the roads and highways.
During National Farm Safety Week and throughout the year, we should express our esteem and gratitude to all who live and work on farms and ranches for their inestimable contributions to our way of life and for their continued efforts in support of safety and health.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September 18 through September 24, 1988, as National Farm Safety Week. I urge all who live and work on farms or ranches to take necessary precautions for safety and health, both on the job and off, both at home and on the roads. I also urge all who serve and supply agricultural producers to support community safety and health efforts in every way. I encourage all Americans to take part in appropriate events and activities in observance of National Farm Safety Week and to note all that Americans in agriculture achieve for our Nation.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  