
    DES MOINES, IOWA (September 23, 2019) – Presidential candidate and former Obama Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Mayor of San Antonio, Texas, Julián Castro, energized crowds and talked about his sweeping policy proposals at 10 events over three days in Iowa.
Secretary Castro spoke to more than 11,000 Democrats on Saturday at the Polk County Democrats Steak Fry, where he and supporters danced and walked in with a Mariachi Band.
Along with participating in the world famous Steak Fry, Secretary Castro spoke at events focused on some of the most critical issues to the country and to Democratic voters: climate, supporting the LGBTQ community, standing up for working families, farming and trade.
He also received a standing ovation when he talked about his immigration plan at the People's Presidential Forum hosted by Iowa Citizens for Community Improvement. Secretary Castro said the cruelty of this administration would be stopped – no more children in cages and no more scapegoating immigrants.
On Friday, Secretary Castro joined students to participate in the Global Climate Strike, with students at Linn-Mar High School in Marion asking questions about his plans to tackle climate change. He reiterated his support for a Green New Deal.
Speaking at the LGBTQ Forum, Secretary Castro "earned accolades" for his specific proposals. He said his cabinet would reflect the diversity of this country including LGBTQ people and laid out his plan for LGBTQ asylum seekers.
LGBTQ presidential forum in Cedar Rapids shines needed light on issues, Iowa City Press-Citizen
"Julian Castro earned accolades from several viewers for his very specific proposals to further affirmation of LGBTQ people and their safe experiences. Castro took concern about the killings of transgender people of color to a new level, promising a task force to investigate their increasing frequency. He encouraged housing policies that would help ensure safe housing for LGBTQ people."
The former Housing secretary slammed his successor, Ben Carson, for his disparaging remarks about transgender women, according to Vox.
Secretary Castro met Saturday morning with workers including McDonald's cooks and cashiers who were preparing to strike to demand $15 an hour and the right to organize.
On the stage at the Steak Fry, Castro began his speech by again leading the presidential field and calling on House Democrats to begin impeachment proceedings.
"Let me begin with a message for our House Democratic friends – it is time for you to do your job and impeach Donald Trump," according to The Hill.
On Sunday, Secretary Castro spoke to volunteers in his Des Moines campaign office who were preparing to knock on doors.
He spoke with farmers from Greene and Boone counties concerned about the uncertainty created by the president's trade war and joined supporters in Jefferson and Perry.
  