
    
We're proud to announce the Massachusetts leadership team for Marco's campaign: State Senator Richard Ross, State Senator Vinny deMacedo, State Senator Ryan Fattman, State Representative Keiko Orrall, State Representative Shawn Dooley and former Massachusetts GOP Chairman Bob Maginn.
"As the Assistant Minority Leader of the State Senate, I am proud to endorse Marco Rubio for President," State Senator Richard Ross said. "Marco is a generational leader who has a bold vision for the 21st Century and I look forward to helping him in Massachusetts."
State Representative Orrall said she was won over in part by Marco's higher-ed reforms: "As a mother of two children, I am proud to support Marco Rubio because one of his priorities is to make higher education more affordable. Marco had over $100,000 in student loans a few years ago, so no one better understands the need to make higher education more affordable than Marco."
"As the former chairman of the Massachusetts Party, I believe Marco Rubio is the future of our party and I am excited to support him," Maginn said. "He has defined the right strategy to deal with China, and Marco's New American Century is exactly the vision our party and country needs for the 21st century."
The endorsements mean that fully half the GOP's representatives in the Massachusetts State Senate are backing Marco. We're very glad to have them on board!
A little on each member of the team:

State Senator Richard Ross, of Wrentham, represents the Norfolk, Bristol, and Middlesex District, which consists of 12 cities and towns. He has served in the State Senate since 2010.

 Bob Maginn was the Massachusetts State Republican Party Chairman from 2011 to 2013. Maginn has been the Chairman of Jenzabar, Inc., since December 1998 and serves as its Chief Executive Officer. He worked for over 17 years at Bain & Company, Inc., from 1983 to 2000 and served as its Senior Partner.
State Senator Ryan Fattman was elected to the State Senate in 2014, after serving two terms in the Massachusetts House of Representatives and two terms as a selectman in the town of Sutton. The Webster resident is the first Republican to win an election to the Worcester-Norfolk Senate seat since 1938.
State Senator Vinny deMacedo was elected to the State Senate from the Plymouth and Barnstable District on November 4, 2014. He had previously represented the 1st Plymouth District in the Massachusetts House of Representatives since January 1999. He lives in Plymouth and was born in Brava, Cape Verde.
State Representative Shawn Dooley won a special election on January 7th, 2014, to represent the 9th Norfolk District of the State House. He lives in the town of Norfolk.
State Representative Keiko Orrall currently represents the 12th Bristol District, which includes Lakeville, Berkley, and parts of Middleborough and Taunton. She has served in the House of Representatives since October 2011, when she won a special election. She resides in Lakeville.
  