
    French Prime Minister Raymond Barre paid an official visit to Washington September 15-16 at the invitation of President Carter. The President gave a working dinner for Prime Minister Barre on September 15 and held two meetings with the Prime Minister and his party. Their talks covered the range of political, economic, and other issues of importance to the two Governments.
These issues included the Middle East, developments in southern Africa, East-West relations, security and disarmament, nuclear nonproliferation, human rights, and economic policy. The two leaders agreed that close U.S.-French consultations are important on these and other issues.
Following discussions at the seven-nation summit in London last May in which they had taken part, the President and the Prime Minister reviewed economic conditions, both worldwide and in their own countries. Prime Minister Barre noted the significant improvement in France's foreign trade account and described the steps his government had taken to curb inflation, stimulate employment, and bring about conditions needed for sustained economic growth. President Carter reviewed the United States own economic prospects and expressed confidence that the U.S. economic: recovery would continue into 1978.
President Carter emphasized the need to gain significant results in the multilateral trade negotiations in the near future. The Prime Minister stressed the importance of organized freedom of trade as a necessary condition for the orderly growth of that trade for the benefit of both developed and developing countries.
The President and the Prime Minister agreed on the importance of continued close consultation between the United States and France on international financial issues. The President said that the U.S. administration was seeking congressional authority for the United States to take part in the Supplementary Financing Facility (Witteveen facility), to assure that International Monetary Fund resources are sufficient to meet current needs for official financing.
President Carter praised France's leadership in proposing and helping to sustain the North-South dialog between industrialized and developing nations. The two leaders agreed that the Conference on International Economic Cooperation, concluded last June in Paris, had produced a number of positive benefits. They committed their two Governments to continue working for a more open and just international economic system.
The President and the Prime Minister reviewed major defense and disarmament issues. President Carter affirmed the unequivocal commitment of the United States to the defense of Western Europe. He reviewed U.S. steps, in line with the program he announced at last May's London meeting of the North Atlantic Council, to strengthen American forces committed to the defense of Europe. Prime Minister Barre described France's major program to modernize and upgrade its armed forces. The two leaders agreed that these efforts and similar efforts by other allies are essential to maintain the Alliance's security into the next decade.
President Carter and Prime Minister Barre discussed current and projected disarmament talks, including SALT and the U.N. General Assembly's Special Session on Disarmament scheduled for 1978. President Carter said he is convinced that France, as a major power, can make a positive contribution both to the maintenance of allied security and to the search for a more secure and stable international order. He was most interested in Prime Minister Barre's comment on these issues and the indications given on the views that France intends to put forward in the field of disarmament.
President Carter stated his appreciation for France's expressed willingness to participate in the International Fuel Cycle Evaluation, the opening conference of which is to occur next month, and noted that France's technological leadership in the field of nuclear energy makes its contribution particularly important. The President and the Prime Minister agreed that vigorous and imaginative measures are needed to develop nuclear energy while preventing any proliferation of nuclear weapons.
Prime Minister Barre explained the main features of the French energy conservation policy and stressed the vital importance of a rapid implementation of President Carter's energy program.
President Carter outlined U.S. policies on human rights. Prime Minister Barre emphasized that the concept of liberty and the rights of man will continue to inspire French foreign policy. The President and the Prime Minister discussed the Belgrade CSCE Review Conference. They agreed on the need for a thorough review of implementation of all aspects of the Helsinki Final Act, designed to promote further progress in each of these areas.
The President and the Prime Minister reviewed the situation in Africa. President Carter described U.S. steps to support the British effort to bring about a peaceful transition to majority rule in Rhodesia and expressed appreciation for French support. The two leaders agreed on the importance of progress toward social justice and majority rule in southern Africa. President Carter praised France's vital role in promoting economic development and political stability in Africa.
The two leaders also reviewed the situation in the Middle East and agreed on the importance of convening the Middle East Peace Conference.
Prime Minister Barre raised the subject of Concorde landing rights in the United States, emphasizing the importance of this issue to France. President Carter reiterated his support for a 16-month trial period for Concorde at Kennedy Airport and expressed the hope that this could be soon initiated. He also said that he would decide the future of landing rights at Dulles Airport in the very near future.
President Carter emphasized the vital importance of close cooperation between the United States and Europe. He expressed admiration for French leadership in resolving many international economic, social, political, and technological problems. Prime Minister Barre reiterated President Giscard d'Estaing's invitation to President Carter to visit France, and President Carter expressed the hope that he would soon be in a position to reply.
  