
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations for Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 15
Katharine G. Abraham, of Iowa, to be Commissioner of Labor Statistics, U.S. Department of Labor, for a term of 4 years (reappointment).
Corinne Claiborne Boggs, of Louisiana, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Holy See.
Stephen W. Bosworth, of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Korea.
Susan Robinson King,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Susan Robinson King, resigned.
Joseph A. Presel, of Rhode Island, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Uzbekistan.
Richard W. Story, of Georgia, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Georgia, vice William C. O'Kelley, retired.
Submitted September 17
Jerry MacArthur Hultin, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Richard Danzig, resigned.
Gloria Tristani, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 1998, vice Reed E. Hundt, resigned.
Gloria Tristani, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission for a term of 5 years from July 1, 1998 (reappointment).
Submitted September 18
Paul R. Carey, of New York, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the term expiring June 5, 2002, vice Steven Mark Hart Wallman, term expired.
Jose Gerardo Troncoso, of Nevada, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Nevada for the term of 4 years, vice Herbert Lee Brown.
Laura S. Unger, of New York, to be a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the term expiring June 5, 2001, vice J. Carter Beese, Jr., resigned.
Withdrawn September 18
William F. Weld, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mexico, which was sent to the Senate on July 23, 1997.
Submitted September 19
M. John Berry, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Interior, vice Bonnie R. Cohen.
Terrence J. Brown, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, vice Larry E. Byrne, resigned.
Mary Ann Cohen, of California, to be a Judge of the U.S. Tax Court for a term of 15 years after she takes office (reappointment).
Seth Waxman,
of the District of Columbia, to be Solicitor General of the U.S., vice Drew S. Days III, resigned.
  