
    Pool Reports by Gerren Keith Gaynor, theGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




September 26, 202310:25

VP Supplemental Pool #1 - Check In/Wheels Up
Good morning!
I am your pooler for Vice President Harris' day trip to Atlanta, Georgia. VP will be visiting the HBCU campus Morehouse College as a part of her
"Fight For Our Freedoms" college tour.
Harris will participate in a moderated conversation with journalist Gia Peppers and former White House senior advisor Cedric Richmond (who is a graduate of Morehouse). Education Secretary Miguel Cardona will also give remarks.
Morehouse is part of what is considered the largest consortium of Black private institutions of higher learning known as the Atlanta University Center, which includes fellow HBCUs Spelman College, Clark-Atlanta University and Morris Brown. Students from all institutions will be present at today's event.
Your pooler and traveling press were swept at Joint Base Andrews.
VP's motorcade arrived at JBA at approximately 10:09 a.m.
VP was greeted by Secretary Cardona and they boarded AF2 together at 10:11 a.m.
AF2 was wheels up at 10:25 a.m.



September 26, 202312:18

VP Supplemental Pool #2 - Wheels Down/Greetings
AF2 was wheels down at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport at 11:50 a.m.
Upon exiting AF2 at 12 p.m., VP Harris was welcomed by Senator Raphael Warnock, Congresswoman Nikema Williams and Atlanta Mayor Andre Dickens. Moments later, Secretary Cardona exited AF2 to join them.
They talked for about a minute before the VP walked over to a crowd of people gathered behind a barrier on the tarmac.
VP immediately greeted a group of little girls, all estimated to be under the age of 5. She took photos with them, and did the same for others who waited for her arrival.
Pool was escorted away from the crowd at 12:07 p.m. and entered motorcade van. We are now waiting to begin rolling to Morehouse College's campus.



September 26, 202312:45

VP Supplemental Pool #3 - Campus arrival
Motorcade began rolling at 12:19 p.m. and arrived at the Morehouse campus at 12:32 p.m.
Pool is now gathered inside the King Chapel, where the event has already started. Your pooler did not see the VP enter.
The chapel is filled with student, who were singing along to old school R&B as entered.
On the stage is a poster board that reads: "Vice President Kamala Harris, Fight For Our Freedoms."
VP's portion of the program has not started yet.



September 26, 202313:24

VP Supplemental Pool #4 - Student Greeting
Apologies for some of the typos in the last pool report.
Secretary Cardona hit the stage for a few minutes to help rally the crowd, which was still being entertained with music.
VP came out to greet students in the lobby of the Chapel who were unable to be seated due to capacity. The students were very excited.
Harris said she is proud of them and counting on them. She raised the importance of voting and noted that 2020 saw record turnout. It was difficult to hear most of what was said due to the distance of the pool.
The Morehouse band is currently playing inside the chapel.
No word yet on when she will hit the stage for the moderated talk, but it is likely soon.
As a reminder, VP's remarks will be live streamed:https://www.youtube.com/live/xEd-t4nlNJU?si=UwePLqjvPbfMzdd7



September 26, 202313:54

VP Supplemental Pool #5 - Remarks begin
At 1:35 p.m., VP Harris was introduced along with moderators Gia Peppers and Cedric Richmond by Morehouse student Mekhi Perrin who called her a "champion of students."
Harris acknowledged that this generation of students have witnessed many challenging moments, including the police murder of George Floyd.
She reminded students of the power of their vote. She emphasized that in Georgia, there are laws enacted to "intentionally" suppress their vote — including not allowing food and water to be given to voters standing in line. This drew much applause.
Harris acknowledged that she and President Biden are in office because of young students of color like them who voted in 2020.
VP said because they voted, the administration is able to address critical issues like contaminated lead pipes and making college more affordable.
Harris condemned the banning of books and censuring the teaching of Black history.
The VP said some leaders are trying to "distract us and divide us" and "don't have a plan" for the future.
Harris also called out Florida's "Don't Say Gay" law, which she described as a "full-on attack" on the "freedom to be."



September 26, 202314:08

VP Supplemental Pool #6 - Abortion/Climate
Harris has been taking questions from moderators and students in the audience.
A Morehouse student asked the VP about how to promote a more "inclusive and comprehensive approach to reproductive justice."
Harris discussed reasons why women seek abortions, including incidents of rape. VP recalled a story of when her childhood best friend was molested by stepfather, and she asked her mother if her friend could live with them so that she could be safe.
Harris called anti-abortion leaders "extremists" and called it "immoral" to restrict access to abortion care.
Richmond asked the VP about the administration's plan to address the climate crisis.
Harris called the implications of the climate crisis "profound" and that while it affects everyone, "it does not do so equally."
VP uplifted the administration's Justice40 initiative to ensure disparities for minority and disadvantaged communities are addressed.
She called for students to "pay attention" to a movement that is seeking to "undo" diversity, equity and inclusion programs.



September 26, 202314:27

VP Supplemental Pool #7 - Guns/Closing Remarks
A student asked the Vice President about the disproportionate impact of gun violence.
Harris said it is "false choice" to suggest that calling for gun reform is to take away one's Second Amendment right.
The VP asked students to raise their hand if they have been through a gun safety school drill. There were many hands raised.
In her concluding remarks, Harris told the students, "I am really counting on you."
She recalled being a student at Howard, an HBCU, and how it prepared her for leadership, and urged students to remember the same is true for them.
"I want for you to remember that we are all in that room with you, applauding you and expecting and demanding you walk in that room with your chin and your shoulders back, carrying the voice of all the people who are so proud of you and who you represent," said Harris.
"There will be people you don't even realize who will be watching how you do what you do in a way that inspires them to be on a path that you have laid."
Program concluded at 2:20 p.m.



September 26, 2023
[APP Note: Report #8 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


September 26, 202316:08

VP Supplemental Pool #9 - Political event
Pool entered a private residence in the Piedmont Heights neighborhood of Atlanta at 3:25 p.m.
In the room was an intimate gathering of a little more than a dozen people.
"This is like homecoming for me," said the Vice President. At that point, someone shouted, "HU!" — popular phrase among students and graduates of Howard University, the VP's alma mater.
VP Harris thanked the hosts and separately shouted out "Ambassador Young" multiple times. Your pooler was unable to see who the VP was referring to (assuming he was seated directly in front of the VP and out of sight). An educated guess is former UN Ambassador and former Atlanta Mayor Andrew Young.
Harris said, "I feel very optimistic about the future of our country" and that "we are here to fight."
The VP said she "initiated" her college tour because of the "hard-fought" freedoms that are under attack.
She noted that the "supposed red wave" in the 2022 midterm elections didn't happen, and that voters "didn't go for the crazy."
She said wins don't happen if "we don't engage."
Harris recalled her recent tour stop at Morehouse and said she's been telling young people on her tour that "it doesn't have to be this way."
"We are prepared to fight," said Harris.
She proceeded to list accomplishments of the administration:
"We put $1 trillion in the streets of America to deal with the climate crisis."
"We are upgrading America's infrastructure and roads and bridges."
She also praised investments in high-speed internet.
Harris recalled recent comments made by Cedric Richmond at the Morehouse college tour stop, in which he said that she and President Biden are "too modest" about the work the administration is doing.
"I'm traveling the country to remind people that what they did in 2020 matters," said the Vice President.
Harris called the room of attendees "friends" who have been there for her personally for many years, including her days as California attorney general.
The pool was escorted out of the residence immediately after the VP ended her remarks at approximately 3:35 p.m.
Your pooler has asked a few times for specifics about whose home the VP attended.
As of 4:06 p.m., the VP is still inside the residence as the pool van waits outside.



September 26, 202316:21

VP Supplemental Pool #10 - Motorcade rolling
Motorcade began rolling again at 4:15 p.m.
We are en route to Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport.



September 26, 202316:52

VP Supplemental Pool #11 - VP Boards/Wheels Up
Motorcade arrived at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport at 4:32 p.m.
VP Harris exited her vehicle and took photos with staff before boarding AF2 at 4:37 p.m.
AF2 was wheels up at 4:51 p.m.



September 26, 202318:25

VP Supplemental Pool #12
AF2 landed at 6:09 p.m.
VP exited AF2 at 6:13 p.m. and entered her vehicle. Her motorcade began moving at 6:14 p.m.
That's a wrap for your pooler. It's been a pleasure.




  