
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Charles Edward Atchley, Jr., of Tennessee, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee.
Chuck Atchley is currently an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Tennessee, where he has served as the First Assistant United States Attorney since 2018. Mr. Atchley joined the United States Attorney's Office in 2001 and previously served in the Criminal Division, supervising the General Crimes and National Security Section. Prior to joining the United States Attorney's Office, Mr. Atchley served as an Assistant District Attorney General for the State of Tennessee. Mr. Atchley earned his B.A. from the University of Tennessee, and his J.D. from Samford University's Cumberland School of Law.
Katherine A. Crytzer, of Tennessee, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Tennessee.
Katherine Crytzer currently serves as Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General at the Department of Justice's Office of Legal Policy, where she provides legal and policy advice to the Assistant Attorney General and Department of Justice leadership. Ms. Crytzer previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of Kentucky and was in private practice at Kirkland & Ellis, LLP. Upon graduation from law school, Ms. Crytzer served as a law clerk to Judge Raymond W. Gruender of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit. Ms. Crytzer received her B.S., summa cum laude, from Middle Tennessee State University and her J.D., magna cum laude, from Antonin Scalia Law School at George Mason University.
Sharon Goodie, of the District of Columbia, to serve as Associate Judge on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
Sharon Goodie is currently an Administrative Law Judge at the District of Columbia Office of Administrative Hearings, where she serves as Judicial Director for the Council for Court Excellence. Before her 2005 appointment, Judge Goodie served as a prosecutor for the District of Columbia Office of the Attorney General and was a lawyer in private practice. Upon graduation from law school, Judge Goodie served as a law clerk to Judge Harriett R. Taylor of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. Judge Goodie earned her B.A., cum laude, from Brandeis University, and her J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center.
  