
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

As we strive to improve our military preparedness to further our goals of a lasting peace and freedom, we look for special inspiration to our disabled veterans who have so nobly sacrificed for these ideals. Few others have so fully demonstrated great courage or endured such hardships for their country and the cause of liberty.
All Americans owe a great debt of gratitude to the over two million service-disabled veterans. The immense personal adversity suffered by these our fellow countrymen is incalculable in terms of diminished health, lost career opportunities, and restricted personal fulfillment. We are also keenly aware of the substantial tragedy these injuries pose for the families of these veterans who, along with their loved ones, must shoulder the weight of this burden.
The important contributions to the national welfare made by these gallant men and women, not only in their military service but also in their later civilian activities, are a source of pride and admiration to each of us and serve as an illuminating lesson in valor and fortitude.
It is most fitting that Congress has chosen to recognize this record of distinguished service, courage, and accomplishment through passage of a joint resolution authorizing designation of "National Disabled Veterans Week."
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning November 7, 1982, as National Disabled Veterans Week. I call upon all Americans to join in honoring those who have given so much in the defense of freedom. I ask Government agencies at all levels, and private organizations and individuals to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 14th day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightytwo, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  