
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney issued an open letter to his fellow Republicans calling on the Republican Party to once again become the party of change in Washington. "Democrats are not the change Washington needs. We are the change Washington needs and it's time for Republicans like us to stand for that change again," writes Governor Romney.
The Republican Party needs to return to its core conservative principles on issues like fiscal responsibility, ending illegal immigration and upholding ethical standards. By returning to these principles, Governor Romney believes Republicans can bring conservative change to Washington.
To view the open letter in yesterday's New Hampshire Union Leader and today's Roll Call, please see: www.mittromney.com/img/pdf/MR_Open_Letter.pdf
Governor Romney's Open Letter:
To my friends and fellow Republicans,
Throughout our country's long and remarkable journey, there have been "inflection points," critical moments when political, economic, military and other forces converged to alter the course of our history.
We are at one of those inflection points today.
Forces of globalization, the rise of major new economic powerhouses such as China and India, and the emergence of radical Jihad have created a "perfect storm" that will change the course of our nation. We face unprecedented challenges in securing our borders, protecting the American family, and ending America's dependence on foreign oil.
Our actions today will determine which course America will take. Will America remain the world's economic and military superpower, able to preserve peace, progress, and prosperity? Will our children and grandchildren grow up with the same opportunities that have been our birthright for over two centuries? Will our uniquely America culture – a culture of family, patriotism, faith, and freedom – remain our foundation and lead a stronger America into the future?
I believe the American people can rise to these and every other challenge ahead of us. Yet, at this extraordinary moment in our nation's history, our government is failing us. Washington is busy pointing fingers, assigning blame, and spending too much money. There is too much talk and too little action.
The blame, we must admit, does not belong to just one party. If we're going to change Washington, Republicans have to put our own house in order.
We can't be like Democrats – a party of big spending. We can't pretend our borders are secure from illegal immigration. We can't have ethical standards that are a punch-line for Jay Leno.
When Republicans act like Democrats, America loses.
It's time for Republicans to start acting like Republicans. We have to remember who we are: We are not Big Government Republicans. We are not Washington Republicans. We are Change Washington Republicans. Democrats are not the change Washington needs. We are the change Washington needs and it's time for Republicans like us to stand for that change again.
There is not a single challenge America faces that we can't overcome with the innovation and passion that has always been at the heart of the American people. If we change Washington, I believe America can achieve anything.
It's time for change in Washington and that change must begin with us.
Sincerely,
Mitt Romney
  