
    Juan Carlos Benitez, of Puerto Rico, to be Special Counsel for Immigration-Related Unfair Employment Practices for a term of four years, vice John D. Trasvina, term expiring.
Ralph Leo Boyce, Jr., of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Indonesia.
Kenneth C. Brill, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
Kenneth C. Brill, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Representative of the United States of America to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the rank of Ambassador.
Jose A. Fourquet, of New Jersey, to be United States Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank for a term of three years, vice Lawrence Harrington, resigned.
J. Edward Fox, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Joseph R. Crapa, resigned.
Robert W. Jordan, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plentipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.
Dunn Lampton, of Mississippi, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Mississippi for the term of four years, vice Joe Bradley Pigott, resigned.
Edward R. McPherson, of Texas, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture, vice Sally Thompson, resigned.
Kevin E. Moley, of Arizona, to be Representative of the United States of America to the European Office of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, vice George Edward Moose.
E. Anne Peterson, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Barry Edward Carter.
Benigno G. Reyna, of Texas, to be Director of the United States Marshals Service, vice John W. Marshall, resigned.
Robert V. Royall, of South Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Republic of Tanzania.
Read Van de Water, of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Francisco J. Sanchez, resigned.
  