
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Despite all that we have learned about fire prevention and safety, residential fires remain our Nation's number one fire problem. Fires in the home account for four out of every five fire-related deaths, three out of every four fire-related injuries, and almost half of all fire-related property losses.
The vast majority of fire-related deaths occur in homes that do not have a working smoke detector. Because the early warning provided by such a device can dramatically increase one's chances of surving a fire, it is imperative that homeowners not only install but also maintain smoke detectors in recommended areas of the home. During the past quarter-century home fire protection has improved dramtically with the installation of at least one smoke detector in most homes. Yet, more Americans must avail themselves of this lifesaving technology, and those in homes with smoke dectors must be sure to test and service them regularly.
To convey that message nationwide, the United States Fire Administration and the National Fire Protection Association have dedicated this year's Fire Prevention Week activities to the theme, "Test Your Dector -- It's Sound Advice!" I urge Americans to pay heed to fire safety throughout the year and especially during this first week of October. Homeowners should walk through their homes and be certain that there are enough smoke detectors -- one on each level, including the basement, and one outside each sleeping area. Smoke detectors should be tested often to ensure that they are working properly, and batteries should be replaced at least once a year.
As we observe Fire Prevention Week, let us also recognize the members of the public and private organizations that are working toward our shared goal of fire safety, including the American Burn Association, the Congressional Fire Services Institute, the Fire Marshals Association of North America, the International Association of Arson Investigators, the International Association of Black Professional Fire Fighters, the International Association of Fire Chiefs, the International Association of Fire Fighters, the International Association of Fire Service Instructors, the National Association of State Fire Marshals, and the National Volunteer Fire Council.
Most important, let us offer specil thanks to our Nation's volunteer and career fire fighters. These brave men and women put their lives on the line every day in order to protect the lives and property of their fellow citizens. Last year alone, 105 fire fighters made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty. Our Nation will honor them on Sunday, October 11, 1992, during the National Fallen Fire Fighters Memorial Service at the National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg, Maryland. All Americans are invited to join in praying for these herioic individuals and their bereaved families and friends.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of October 4 through October 10, 1992, as Fire Prevention Week. I urge all Americans to participate in fire prevention activities in their homes, schools, and places of work -- this week and throughout the year.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-sixth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  