
    President Bush Announced His Nomination of Two and His Intent to Appoint Three to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his nomination of two individuals and his intention to appoint three individuals to serve in his administration.
The President has nominated Kevin J. O'Connor to be United States Attorney for the District of Connecticut. He has been a Partner with Day, Berry and Howard of Hartford since 1999, and from 1997 to 1999, he was a Litigation Associate with LeBoeuf, Lamb, Greene and MacRae of Hartford. From 1995 to 1997, O'Connor was Senior Counsel to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission's Division of Enforcement, and he was a Litigation Associate with Cahill, Gordon and Reindel of New York from 1993 to 1995. O'Connor is a graduate of Notre Dame University and the University of Connecticut Law School.
The President has nominated John Francis Clark to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia. Clark has served with the United States Marshal Service since 1983. He has been promoted through the ranks to Acting United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Virginia. He was previously a Police Officer with the United States Capitol Police and a Border Patrol Agent with the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Clark is a graduate of Syracuse University.
The President intends to appoint Robin Jennison to be Representative of the United States and Chairman of the Arkansas River Compact Administration (Colorado and Kansas). Jennison is currently the President of Kansas Outdoors and previously served as a member of the Kansas State House of Representatives. During his service in the Kansas State House of Representatives, he served as Speaker of the House, House Majority Leader and Chairman of the Appropriations Committee.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to serve as members of the National Veteran Business Development Corporation:
George Butvilas of Michigan for a six-year term expiring September 21, 2008 Richard Ochsner of Virginia for a six-year term expiring October 1, 2008
  