
    
  Graham: "I'd Be A Commander-In-Chief Worthy Of The Sacrifice Of The One Percent Who Are Taking Care Of All Of Us."

Yesterday, Senator Lindsey Graham made his second appearance on ABC'sThe View where he joined Whoopi Goldberg, Michelle Collins, Raven Symone, Paula Faris and Candace Cameron.
Graham: "These Guys Are Not Ten Feet Tall... Most Young People Over There Are Not Buying What ISIL's Selling. That's The Great Hope."
(The View, "Republican presidential candidate and U.S. Senator Lindsey Graham," ABC, 09/29/15)

Whoopi: "There's A Great Movement Going On In This Country And Around The World With Young People Who Are Finding Different Ways To Attack Those Ideals That Aren't For Them."
Graham: "Embrace It. Give A Young Woman A Say About The Future Of Her Children In The Mid-East."
Graham On Being Commander-in-Chief: "When It Comes To Defending Our Nation, Experience Is A Good Thing. I've Got A Bunch Of It."
"I've been to Iraq and Afghanistan 35 times. I've learned from Bush's mistakes, Obama's mistakes, my mistakes. And I think I'd be a Commander-in-Chief who could keep us safe. And if I get to be Commander-in-Chief, we're going to go over there and kill as many of these bastards as we can before they come here.
"I want you to have experience if you're going to be Commander-in-Chief. I want you to understand the difference between Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria. I want you to have walked in the shoes of our military members...before you take over the destiny of their lives. I think, when it comes to defending our nation, experience is a good thing. I've got a bunch of it. And I've learned the hard way, how we got into this mess and quite frankly, there's a plan to get out."
On The 2016 GOP Field: "I Want To Get On With Leading The Nation. Hell No, I'm Not Going To Drop Out."
"What drives me is that I have been in the military most of my life. You don't drop out. You don't get a pass. When you go to Iraq and Afghanistan, you're a volunteer. How many people have gone three or four times? A lot. So they're not going to quit, I'm not going to quit.
"When I was 21 my mom died, when I was 22 my dad died. I'm the first in my family to ever go to college; neither finished high school. We ran a bar, restaurant, poolroom, that's why I'd be a good president... I want to get on with leading the nation. Hell no, I'm not going to drop out."
On Trump: "His Foreign Policy Makes No Sense...I Don't See Him Bringing Us Together."
"... his foreign policy makes no sense to me. You know, to destroy ISIL he says we're going to go to Iraq and Syria and take their oil to pay for our wounded warriors. How would you like that job? 'Hey, I'm from the American army. I'm here to take your oil.' At the end of the day, that turns the entire Middle East against us and doesn't destroy ISIL. He's loud, he's very successful, but at the end of the day, I don't see him bringing us together..."
  