
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 30
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, from Martha's Vineyard, MA, arriving in the afternoon.
August 31
In the morning, the President traveled to Herndon, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC. Later, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Moscow, Russia, arriving the following morning.
September 1
In the morning, the President participated in a wreath laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at the Kremlin. Later, he presented the members of the U.S. delegation to President Boris Yeltsin of Russia in the Presidential Study at the Kremlin, after which the two Presidents had a separate meeting.
In the afternoon, the President had a working luncheon with President Yeltsin in the Presidential Living Room at the Kremlin. Later, the President and Hillary Clinton met with American business leaders at Moscow State University.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended an official dinner hosted by President Yeltsin in Catherine Hall at the Kremlin.
The President announced his intention to appoint Roy A. Stein as Commissioner of the Great Lakes Fisheries Commission.
September 2
In the morning, the President met with President Yeltsin in the Presidential Study at the Kremlin.
September 3
In the morning, the President traveled to Belfast, Northern Ireland. Later, he met with First Minister David Trimble and Deputy First Minister Seamus Mallon of the Northern Ireland Assembly in Room 106 of the Parliament Building.
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Omagh, Northern Ireland. In the evening, they participated in a wreath-laying ceremony on Market Street. Later, they traveled to Armagh, Northern Ireland, and then to Dublin, Ireland.
The President announced his intention to nominate Joseph Swerdzewski to be General Counsel at the Federal Labor Relations Authority.
The President announced his intention to nominate Anita K. Jones, Pamela A. Ferguson, and Robert C. Richardson to be members of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation.
September 4
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Shannon, Ireland.
The President declared a major disaster in South Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Bonnie on August 25-September 1.
The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Bonnie on August 25-September 1.
The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Earl on September 3.
  