
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 23 *
The President announced his intention to nominate Virgil Speakman and Jerome F. Kever to serve as members of the Railroad Retirement Board.
September 24
In the morning, the President traveled from Chicago, IL, to Minneapolis, MN, and then traveled to Kansas City, MO. In the evening, he traveled to New York City.
September 25
In the afternoon, the President had meetings with United Nations Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and President Alija Izetbegovic of Bosnia at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. Following the meetings, he hosted a reception for African heads of state who attended the General Assembly.
September 26
In the afternoon, the President met with President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia at the United Nations Building. Later that afternoon, the President returned to the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel where he had meetings with President Heydar Aliyev of Azerbaijan, President Ion Iliescu of Romania, and President Carlos Salinas of Mexico.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Dennis M. Duffy as Assistant Secretary for Policy and Planning for the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The White House announced the President has invited Crown Prince El-Hassan bin Talal of Jordan and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel to a trilateral meeting at the White House on October 3.
September 28
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton attended a dinner hosted by President Boris Yeltsin of Russia and Naina Yeltsin at the new Russian Embassy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Martin Neil Baily as a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
September 29
In the afternoon, the President met with Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Dick Spring of Ireland.
The President announced his intention to nominate Kenneth B. Hipp to the National Mediation Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint William B. Gould IV to the Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the World War II Memorial Advisory Board:
—Rear Adm. Ming E. Chang, USN (Ret.);
—Melissa Durbin;
—Miguel Encinias;
—Helen Fagin;
—William Ferguson, Sr.;
—Jess Hay;
—Jon Mangis;
—Bill Mauldin;
—Sarah McClendon;
—Maj. Gen. Robert Moorhead;
—Bill Murphy;
—Peter Wheeler.
September 30
In the morning, the President attended the Supreme Court investiture ceremony of Associate Justice Stephen Breyer.
The President announced his intention to nominate Steven L. Zinter, Joseph E. Stevens, Jr., and E. Gordon Gee to the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following six individuals to serve on the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled:
—Hugh L. Brennan;
—Carol Dortch;
—Ira L. Kemp;
—Robert M. Moore;
—Steven B. Schwalb;
—Suzanne B. Seiden.
  