
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
The Combined Federal Campaign (CFC) allows Federal employees an opportunity to demonstrate their unmatched record of generosity and concern for the less fortunate. As leaders in the Federal government, it is important that we take visible leadership roles in the Combined Federal Campaign in our agencies.
Your personal interest, visible support, and participation are essential. Thousands of Federal employees participate, but many others remain on the sidelines. Make a special effort to encourage all of your employees, both in the Washington area and in all CFC locations worldwide, to support the Campaign.
Secretary of Energy John Herrington will be our Chairman for the 1988-1989 Combined Federal Campaign of the National Capital Area. I am asking that you support Secretary Herrington by personally serving as Chairman of the Campaign in your agency and appointing a top official as your Vice Chairman. Please advise Secretary Herrington of your willingness to serve and the name of the person you designate.
With your leadership and active involvement, I am sure we can make this Campaign, the last of my Presidency, a resounding success.
RONALD REAGAN
Memorandum for All Federal Civilian Employees and Military Personnel
This year's Combined Federal Campaign, the last to begin during my term of office, offers Federal employees the opportunity to continue an unmatched record of generosity and to show our concern for the less fortunate in the United States and around the world.
No matter where we are, whether here in Washington or serving in uniform far beyond our Nation's borders, the Combined Federal Campaign makes it possible for us to demonstrate the generosity that has made the United States of America the world leader in charitable giving.
Your record of generosity and concern for others has been a matter of great pride to me. I am confident that this grand record will continue in this final Campaign during my Presidency.
While the decision to give is personal and voluntary, I'll be doing my part, and I hope you will, too, in wholeheartedly supporting the 1988-1989 Combined Federal Campaign.Thank you, and God bless you.
RONALD REAGAN
  