
    Health Care Leaders Endorse Senator Clinton's Plan to Provide Coverage to Every American
MANCHESTER, NH - On the heels of Hillary Clinton's announcement of her American Health Choices Plan, NH for Hillary announced the "Granite State Health Corps," a group of healthcare leaders and medical providers from across the state who have endorsed Hillary and her plan to provide affordable, quality healthcare coverage to every American.
Hillary's Granite State Health Corps -- respected leaders in the healthcare community -- will advocate for her health care plan across the state, talking to neighbors, friends, colleagues and attending local events about Hillary's leadership on the issue and what it means for the people of New Hampshire.
Under this plan, all Americans can keep their current insurance, choose a new private plan or take part in a public plan like Medicare. Insurance will be portable and safe from discrimination.
"The fact that there are 47 million people without health insurance in a country as rich as ours is just a national disgrace," said Senator Clinton. "I have proposed a plan that will to modernize the health care system and ensure affordable coverage for all."
Under the American Health Choices Plan, a family will have a choice of quality, affordable health insurance plans. They can keep their existing plan, offered through their employer, or they can choose from the same coverage options offered under the Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan or a new public program, modeled on Medicare. Either way, their health insurance will cost less than it does today. And they can rest assured that if they become ill or lose their jobs, they won't lose their coverage, because insurance companies will no longer be able to exclude people or charge unaffordable premiums because a person has a chronic illness such as cancer or heart disease.
For more information on the American Health Choices Plan, visit the campaign's website at www.hillaryclinton.com/healthcare.


  Granite State Health Corps

Ellen Ceppetelli, RN, Windsor, VT - Chair of the Department of Nursing at Colby-Sawyer College and Director of Nursing Education at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center
Dr. Jeffrey Cohen, Hanover, NH - Chief of Neurosurgery at Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center
Dr. Stuart Glassman, Bedford, NH -Adjunct Assistant Professor of Community and Family Medicine at Dartmouth College Medical School
Senator Maggie Hassan, Exeter, NH - Health Care Advocate, served on the board of Community Developmental Services and the Disabilities Rights Center
Senator Molly Kelly, Keene, NH - Vice Chairwoman of the Healthy New Hampshire Foundation and Board member of the Home Care Association of New Hampshire.
Rep. Martha McLeod, Franconia, NH - Executive Director of the North Country Health Consortium
Dr. Cynthia Moniz, Canterbury, NH - Ph.D., MSW
Dr. Chris Roseberry, Exeter, NH - Chief of Surgery at Exeter Hospital
Senator Kathy Sgambati, Tilton, NH - Former Deputy Commissioner of the New Hampshire Department of Health and Human Services
Dr. Elizabeth Smith, Concord, NH - Pediatrician
Dr. Gary Sobelson, Concord, NH - Family Physician and NH Medical Leader
Wendy Wilson, RN, Laconia, NH - Professor of Nursing at the New Hampshire Technical College
Dr. Rick Wilson, Laconia, NH - Medical Administrator, and former clinical pediatrician of 25 years at Lakes Regional General Hospital
  