
    From the Boston Phoenix, Feb. 10, 2011, http://thephoenix.com/BLOGS/talkingpolitics/archive/2011/02/10/romney-rewrites-sampler.aspx
Romney Rewrites, Sampler
Published Feb 10 2011, 10:16 AM by David S. Bernstein
There's been a lot of pick-up on my item about changes in the new paperback edition of Mitt Romney's "No Apology." I didn't have room to provide more than a summary there, so I thought I'd provide more of the changes here, so people can judge for themselves.
Bear in mind that the remainder of the book (other than the new introduction) is virtually unchanged — aside from the two sections I wrote about, I could only identify five paragraphs altered in the entire book, all of which were either to change something to past tense, or to remove something that is no longer true (eg, "there has never been an oil spill from an offshore platform"). Oh, and to remove journalist Nina Easton from the acknowledgements. (Perhaps at her request, after she got grief for the ethics of advising Romney.)
....
Next, the section titled "The Massachusetts Model" in the chapter "Healing Health Care." The first paragraph of that section in the hardcover has been completely removed; here it is:
In 2009, the national health-care policy supported by Barack Obama was often and erroneously reported as being based on the plan we enacted in Massachusetts. There were some big differences — in particular, our plan did not include a public insurance option. The notion of getting the federal government into the health-insurance business is a very bad idea. Government-supplied insurance would inevitably be subsidized at great cost to the taxpayers and, combined with Medicare and Medicaid, it would give government the kind of monopoly we would never allow a private entity to claim. Clearly, the public insurance option is simply a transitional step toward the president's stated goal of creating a single-payer system, one in which the nation's sole health insurer would be the federal government.
You can see the problem: he argued that the major difference is the public option, which did not end up being part of the federal law. That paragraph is gone in the new edition. Over the next several paragraphs, there are a few other removals and changes, mostly removing suggestions or hints about how to do national health-care reform right. One good example comes at the end of a paragraph boasting of the success of his plan in Massachusetts. The original paragraph ends with this sentence:
We can accomplish the same thing for everyone in the country, and it can be done without letting government take over health care.
That has been replaced with:
And it was done without government taking over health care.
The biggest change, however, is the addition of seven paragraphs at the end of the section. Here are some excerpts:
...When the bill was signed, we noted that as with any experiment, it would need mid-course corrections. In addition, we knew that the legislature had added a number of troublesome provisions to the program — subsequent data would prove that these would be among the necessary corrections.
I am often asked how I would make the program better. First, of course, I would reinstitute my vetoes of the legislature's additions.... I would also have rather provided a tax break for those who have health insurance rather than a tax penalty for those without health insurance....
I would have made very different choices in the years since I left office than those that were made by the Democrats. When the reform was passed, for example, we required everyone who received subsidized insurance to pay a fair share of their premiums — the new liberal administration decided that some people should get their insurance for nothing. Imagine the additional cost to the state of such a decision. Imagine as well the incentive it creates for people — particularly unhealthy people — to move into the state.... There is no question in my mind that our program could be significantly improved if it were managed by a conservative administration....
Had we not passed out program, it is probable that an expensive entitlement would have been imposed on Massachusetts taxpayers: a ballot initiative would have made government-provided health care for every resident a constitutional right - and that initiative was leading in the polls. And it has been an instructive experiment, teaching both the "do" and "don't"....
Here is why Obamacare will not work and should be repealed. First, the Massachusetts health-care plan was designed for Massachusetts, not for every state and not for the nation.... Second, Obamacare was a major departure from what we had crafted: It raised taxes, cut benefits for seniors, and imposed laborious burdens on small business — we did not. His bill was over two thousand pages and is intended as a step toward a government takeover of health care; our bill was seventy pages and was intended as a step toward market-driven health care. Our reform was constitutional; Obamacare is an unconstitutional federal incursion into the rights of states. And, as Florida's Marco Rubio put it: "Even if Obamacare was a good program, which it is not, we simply cannot afford more federal spending. [Italics in original]
  