
    Today, Mitt Romney released his plan for Securing U.S. Leadership In Space. As Paul Ryan travels to Orlando, Florida, today, he will outline the space priorities for a Romney-Ryan administration.
America's space program is an integral element of national prestige and power that protects our citizens and allies while inspiring future generations.  It is an engine of technological innovation and economic vitality.  Rebuilding NASA, restoring U.S. leadership, and creating new opportunities for space commerce will be hard work, but Mitt Romney will strive to rebuild an institution worthy of our aspirations and capable once again of leading the world toward new frontiers.
"America's space program lies at the intersection of so many important priorities, from technological innovation and economic growth to national security to international leadership," said Romney. "We must never waver in our commitment to this strategic national asset."
Romney will bring together all the stakeholders — from NASA, from the Air Force, from our leading universities, and from commercial enterprises — to set goals, identify missions, and define a pathway forward that is guided, coherent, and worthy of our great nation.
Space Priorities For A Romney-Ryan Administration:
Focusing NASA. A strong and successful NASA does not require more funding, it needs clearer priorities. Romney will ensure that NASA has practical and sustainable missions. There will be a balance of pragmatic and top-priority science with inspirational and groundbreaking exploration programs.
Partnering Internationally. Part of leadership is also engaging and working with our allies and the international community. Romney will be clear about the nation's space objectives and will invite friends and allies to cooperate with America in achieving mutually beneficial goals.
Strengthening Security. Space-based information capabilities are the central nervous system of the U.S. national security community. If America is to remain strong as a nation, the national security space programs must remain strong and sustainable. Romney is committed to a robust national security space program and will direct the development of capabilities that defend and increase the resilience of space assets. He will also direct the development of capabilities that will deter adversaries seeking to damage or destroy the space capabilities of the U.S. and its allies.
Revitalizing Industry. A strong aerospace industry must be able to compete for and win business in foreign markets. Romney will work to ease trade limitations, as appropriate, on foreign sales of U.S. space goods and will work to expand access to new markets.
To View The Full White Paper Online, Click Here: http://mi.tt/Se3XOn
  