
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The United States is currently engaged in a nationwide effort to restore excellence to our educational system. Today more and more parents, educators, and elected officials are determined to set high standards for our schools and to meet them. Recognizing the importance of learning, not only in and of itself, but also as a means of maintaining the Nation's strength and productivity in an increasingly competitive world, we have established ambitious national education goals for the year 2000. If we are to succeed, we must reaffirm our support for a group of men and women who are working hard to achieve these goals -- our Nation's teachers.
Education is a lifelong process of learning and discovery that begins in a child's home and extends through years of schooling and experience. On this National Teacher Appreciation Day, we honor teachers for their unique and important role in advancing our children's education. By helping their students to grow in knowledge, skill, and reasoning ability, teachers not only open the doors of opportunity for them but also help them to become responsible, productive citizens. In this way, the dedicated men and women who educate our Nation's youth also help to shape the future of the United States. That is why their work is so important to all of us.
Whether they work in the traditional academic setting, vocational training, continuing education, or special education, teachers influence both the personal and the intellectual development of their students. Indeed, teachers who convey a genuine commitment to excellence -- as well as respect for authority and a sense of responsibility and concern for others -- are among the best role models a young person can have. When a teacher cultivates in his or her students not only knowledge but also a lifelong love of learning, that teacher has given them a great and lasting gift. The work of a good teacher endures, long after his or her students have said farewell.
As we advance in years, we cannot fail to remember gratefully our best teachers -- perhaps the elementary school teacher who recognized our potential and patiently helped us to develop it; or the high school English instructor who challenged and inspired us; or the college history professor who breathed life into ancient texts and enabled us to become a thrilled companion on the journeys of entire nations. We can never thank these teachers enough, and we can never fully trace the extent of their influence in our lives.
For all they do on behalf of our children and the Nation, teachers merit our abiding respect and gratitude. Let us ensure that we express both, not only on National Teacher Appreciation Day, but also throughout the year.
In grateful recognition of America's teachers, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 313, has designated October 3, 1990, as "National Teacher Appreciation Day" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 3, 1990, as National Teacher Appreciation Day. I urge all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  