
    Announces Communications Team
AUSTIN — Texas Gov. Rick Perry has announced key members of his presidential campaign staff, including Rob Johnson as campaign manager, Deirdre Delisi as policy and strategy director, Wayne Hamilton as political director and Ray Sullivan has been named communications director. Eric Bearse will serve as deputy communications director, Mark Miner as national press secretary, Robert Black as travel press secretary, and Katherine Cesinger as state press director (working with state media across the country).
"I am committed to turning our country back into the land of opportunity as the next president of the United States, and I have complete confidence in the top members of my presidential campaign staff to help get us there," Gov. Rick Perry said. "The individuals heading up this campaign are professional, each of them has extensive experience in running successful campaigns, and I look forward to working closely with this talented team of experts to take our message to the people of this country and get America working again."
Rob Johnson has extensive experience in political campaigns and government relations. He recently served as senior advisor to Gov. Perry in the Texas Governor's Office. Johnson previously served as campaign manager to the governor's successful 2010 gubernatorial re-election campaign. Prior to that, he was chief of staff to Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, and also served as his deputy chief of staff and campaign manager of his 2002 campaign. He also served as chief of staff to Congressman Jay Dickey in Washington, D.C. Johnson received bachelor's degrees in political science and public relations from Southern Methodist University.
Deirdre Delisi has most recently served as the chair of the Texas Transportation Commission, which oversees the statewide activities of the Texas Department of Transportation. Delisi has more than 14 years experience in government policy. She served as chief of staff and deputy chief of staff to Gov. Perry, and served as his special assistant when he was lieutenant governor. She is a former policy advisor to the presidential campaigns of Lamar Alexander and George W. Bush. Delisi earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Duke University and master's degree in international policy studies from Stanford University.
Wayne Hamilton is the past executive director of the Republican Party of Texas, where he was the longest serving executive director in the party's history. Prior to that, he was a senior campaign aide to Congressman Joe Barton. For the past eight years, Hamilton has worked as a consultant, focusing on governmental affairs, corporate public affairs, political consulting, and event and project management, successfully managing projects in 15 states. After the historic Republican victories of 2002, including Gov. Perry's election, Hamilton served as executive director of the 2003 Texas Inaugural Committee. In 2007, and again in 2011, Hamilton was again asked to serve as the executive director of the Inaugural Committees. He is a graduate of Dallas Baptist University in Dallas.
Ray Sullivan has 22 years of government and public relations experience, most recently serving as Gov. Perry's chief of staff at the Texas Capitol. Prior to that, he operated Sullivan Public Affairs, an Austin-based public and government relations firm. Between 1998 and 2002, he worked in various roles for Perry, including deputy chief of staff, communications director to then Lt. Gov. Perry, and communications director for the 1998 and 2002 campaigns. During the 2000 presidential campaign, Sullivan served as a national spokesman for George W. Bush for President in Austin, including stints in Tallahassee and Broward County during the Florida recount. He also worked in the communications office of Bush-Quayle'92, and from 1995 to 1998, Sullivan served as deputy communications director for then Gov. George W. Bush. He also worked as a political consultant at Karl Rove + Company, and worked for U.S. Sen. Kay Bailey Hutchison (R-TX), Congressman Duncan Hunter (R-CA) and Congressman Sam Johnson (R-Plano) in Washington, D.C. Sullivan graduated from San Diego State University with a degree in business marketing.
A veteran speechwriter, communications consultant, and political adviser to candidates and officeholders, Bearse formed Bearse & Company, LLC in 2007, a communications and political consulting firm. Since that time, he has provided political and communications consulting services to Texas House Speaker Joe Straus, Comptroller Susan Combs, Attorney General Greg Abbott and Railroad Commissioner Michael Williams. Bearse wrote speeches for Gov. Perry for eight years (1999 — 2007), including two inaugural addresses, four "state of the state" speeches and several Republican State Convention addresses. He has also written speeches for university officials and private citizens, and directed grassroots and media campaigns for private organizations. Bearse worked for six political campaigns in Texas — including Gov. Perry's campaigns for lieutenant governor and governor — and consulted on several political campaigns in the 2008 and 2010 election cycle. A 1993 graduate of Texas A&M University, Bearse was a member of the Fightin' Texas Aggie Corps of Cadets and earned a bachelor's degree in political science.
Miner served as communications director for Gov. Perry during the 2011 and 2009 legislative sessions. He also recently served as communications director for Gov. Perry's successful 2010 gubernatorial re-election campaign. He also previously served as communications director for Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, former Virginia Gov. Jim Gilmore, the Republican National Committee and the Bill Simon for Governor Campaign in California. Miner graduated from Michigan State University in 1987 with a bachelor's degree in communications.
Black has more than a decade of political and government experience, most recently serving as the director of governmental affairs for American Electric Power. He served as Gov. Perry's press secretary and communications director from 2003 to 2008, as well as directing the governor's communications efforts during his successful 2006 gubernatorial re-election bid. Previously, he served as the communications director for Texas Attorney General Greg Abbott's successful 2002 campaign and as the communications director for the Republican Party of Texas from 1998 — 2001. Black graduated from the University of Texas — San Antonio.
Cesinger has worked for Gov. Perry for nearly seven years, most recently serving as his press secretary at the state capitol. Prior to that, she served as deputy press secretary for three years. Cesinger also served as communications director for the Governor's Competitiveness Council, and has worked in the governor's budget, planning and policy division as well as the office's legislative division. Prior to working in the Texas Governor's Office, she worked for the Louisiana House of Representatives. Cesinger earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Louisiana State University.
  