
    
  By the President of the United States Of America
  A Proclamation

Scarcely a day passes that we do not read of a tragic fire which has destroyed life or property somewhere in our land. Each year more than 12,000 lives are lost from fires in America and an additional 300,000 people suffer serious injury. Fires also cause a staggering loss in terms of property damage. Each year the cost in property destroyed by fires in this country is more than $3 billion while another $8 billion is spent on additional fire costs.
While this needless waste cannot be halted completely, we know that active fire prevention can do much to reduce these terrible misfortunes. Two years ago, I appointed a National Commission on Fire Prevention and Control which has since reported its findings concerning our Nation's fire problem. The Commission's strong emphasis on fire prevention is persuasive and sensible. It encourages us to place a greater priority on the work of preventing fires before they start rather than simply working to put them out after they begin.
Accidents are often acts beyond our control, but careless accidents can be prevented. Every American must recognize his or her responsibility to make fire prevention an effective national commitment.
Now, Therefore, I, Richard Nixon, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate the week beginning October 7, 1973, as Fire Prevention Week.
I urge all our citizens to involve themselves personally in fire prevention activities in their own communities, working with local fire departments and local governments as well as with the National Fire Protection Association. I also request all Federal agencies, in cooperation with the Federal Fire Council, to conduct effective year-round fire prevention programs in order to help reduce the terrible loss of life and property from fires.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred ninety-eighth.

RICHARD NIXON
  