
    "Your vote really does make a difference in real things that are happening in real time in your real lives," said Vice President Harris to a full house of students as she continued her "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour
BERKS COUNTY, PA — Yesterday, Vice President Kamala Harris celebrated National Voter Registration Day by holding a high-energy event in front of an overflow crowd at Reading Area Community College, a Hispanic-Serving Institution in Reading, PA. While continuing her nationwide "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour, Vice President Harris participated in a moderated conversation with actress Annie Gonzalez, took questions directly from young leaders, and urged attendees to register to vote, use their voices, and stay active.
"Of the many ways you can make a difference in our country, one of the tools that you have is voting," said Vice President Harris. "When you vote, it actually determines whether the person who is holding elected office is going to fight for your freedoms and rights or not – whether that be the freedom that you should have to just be free from attacks, free from hate, free from gun violence, free from bias, free to love who you love and be open about it, free to have access to the ballot box without people obstructing your ability to exercise your civic right."
The Vice President discussed a range of issues that are impacting young people across the country – from reproductive freedom and gun safety to climate action. She also highlighted how the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered for young Americans, outlined the work ahead, and thanked student organizers for leading in their communities. "You're not waiting for other people to figure it out; you are leading on these issues," said Vice President Harris. "I am so certain that when the students who are here, when you all in your generation starts voting in your numbers, so many of these things are going to change."
Tuesday's community college event followed the Vice President's National Voter Registration Day conversation with actress Storm Reid about the importance of students registering to vote. MSNBC's Morning Joe also featured a National Voter Registration Day video message that the Vice President and Second Gentleman recorded with Mandana Dayani, the co-founder of I am a Voter, a nonpartisan civic engagement organization.
Vice President Harris's "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour is a month-long national swing to mobilize thousands of young people in the ongoing fight for fundamental freedoms and rights. After visiting Reading Area Community College yesterday, she visited a job training facility at IBEW Local 743 where she spoke with members of an apprenticeship program. The Vice President's next tour stops include Morehouse College in Atlanta, GA on September 26 and the University of Wisconsin-Madison on October 4.
See more about the energy at yesterday's event: 
Washington Post: Long lines of students outside Reading Area Community College's Miller Center for the Arts ahead of a visit from @VP Harris. Harris will speak at this Hispanic-serving institution in this Hispanic-majority city in PA today as part of her "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour.
NextGen America: The energy in Pennsylvania for the VP is palpable. The youth vote is fired up!
Voters of Tomorrow: Reading Area Community College is HYPED to receive the Vice President.
Washington Post:  Local HS cheer & band performing ahead of @VP's arrival in Reading. Students here say how surprised they are to see Harris making a trip to @RACC_edu. "We're a little town & it's a big state like I really have no idea how she picked us. Everybody's excited," one student said.
NBC News: Vice President Kamala Harris praised Gov. Josh Shapiro for making Pennsylvania the 24th state to implement automatic voter registration. She contrasted his announcement with laws in other states that she said "intentionally make it more difficult to vote.
NBC Philly: Vice President Harris visiting Reading Area Community College as part of tour of college campuses
Washington Post:  @VP is welcomed to the stage with loud cheers from the 500+ crowd of students and Reading community members.
Harry Sisson: WOW! This is the line at Reading Community College to see VP Harris speak today. We continue to see young people all around the country fill up these events! 
WFMZ 69 News: Vice President Kamala Harris is at Reading Area Community College as part of her "Fight for Our Freedoms" college tour
  