
    Dymally Appointed California Co-Chair for Hillary Clinton
The Clinton Campaign today announced the key endorsement of California Assemblyman and Chair of the California Legislative Black Caucus, Mervyn M. Dymally who will serve as California Co-Chair for the Hillary Clinton for President Campaign. In Congress, Dymally served as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
Assemblyman Dymally has been a leader in the California legislature since 1962, when he was first elected to the State Assembly. In 1966, he became the first African American to serve in the State Senate, and was soon elected as Chairman of the Senate Majority Caucus. In 1974, he made history when he was elected the first of two African American Lieutenant Governors in the United States. In Congress, Dymally served as Chair of the Congressional Black Caucus.
"I had the opportunity to attend an event in my district where Senator Clinton spoke with community residents at King/Drew Magnet High School and the Charles Drew University about issues important to my constituents, including job creation, education, economic development and public safety," Assemblyman Dymally said. "The answers Senator Clinton provided and the connection she was able to make with the audience convinced me that Senator Hillary Clinton is the candidate with the strength and experience to make the changes our communities need and want."
On Friday, September 14, Hillary Clinton joined Magic Johnson for a community town hall discussion in South Los Angeles, which was attended by local residents including parents, students, ministers, elected officials and community activists.
"I am honored to have the support of Assemblyman Mervyn Dymally who made history in California by being the first African-American Lt. Governor in the state," said Clinton.
Assemblyman Dymally represents the 52nd Assembly District in California, which includes Compton, Watts, Willowbrook, Paramount, North Long Beach, and South Los Angeles.
Dymally has been an advocate for health care improvement during his tenure in the California Assembly. In 2006, he introduced AB 1, a bill which would provide health care for children of poverty-level families. He recently authored AB 2, a bill which would give coverage to those with catastrophic illness.
"I am proud to endorse Senator Clinton because she understands that access to quality and affordable health care should be available to every American. As President she will make universal healthcare a reality," Dymally added.
  