
    Pool Reports by Claire Fahy, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 11, 202308:33

VP travel pool #1 — sept 11 ceremony
VP arrived at 8:31 at the ground zero memorial ahead of the 9/11 ceremony just as the sun began to come out on what was a humid, overcast morning in lower Manhattan.
On background from a White House official: Today, Vice President Harris will travel to New York City, New York to commemorate the 22nd anniversary of 9/11 at the National September 11th Memorial. The Vice President will be joined by other public and elected officials, including U.S. Department of Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Majority Leader Schumer, Senator Gillibrand, New York Governor Kathy Hochul, New York City Mayor Eric Adams, and former New York City Mayor Mike Bloomberg.

President Biden will meet with and deliver remarks before more than 1,000 servicemembers, first responders and their families at a military base in Anchorage, Alaska.
Vice President Harris will mark the anniversary at the September 11th Anniversary Commemoration Ceremony hosted by the National September 11 Memorial and Museum in New York, New York.
First Lady Jill Biden will lay a wreath at the National 9/11 Pentagon Memorial to honor the lives lost on September 11th in Arlington, Virginia.
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will mark the anniversary at the Flight 93 National Memorial Observance Wreath Laying Ceremony in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin will host an Observance Ceremony at the National 9/11 Pentagon Memorial in Arlington, Virginia.
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas and Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield will also attend the September 11th Anniversary Commemoration Ceremony hosted by the National September 11 Memorial and Museum in New York, New York.
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough will participate in a 9/11 National Day of Service event at VA's Baltimore National Cemetery in Baltimore, Maryland.




September 11, 202309:40

VP travel pool #2 — sept 11 ceremony
VP departed the ceremony at ground zero at 9:38 am. She stood between Mayor Eric Adams and Gov. Kathy Hochul for most of the ceremony.




  