
    On Monday, October 1, 2018, President Donald J. Trump will award the Medal of Honor to Ronald J. Shurer II, for conspicuous gallantry for actions he took in 2008 as a Staff Sergeant in the United States Army.
Ronald J. Shurer will receive the Medal of Honor for his actions on April 6, 2008, while serving as a Senior Medical Sergeant, Special Forces Operational Detachment Alpha 3336, Special Operations Task Force-33, in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. Then-Staff Sergeant Shurer and his team were engaged by enemy machine gun, sniper, and rocket-propelled grenade fire. The lead portion of the assault element sustained several casualties and became pinned down on the mountainside. Then-Staff Sergeant Shurer braved enemy fire to treat an injured Soldier. After stabilizing the Soldier, he fought his way across a barrage of bullets and up the mountain to the lead element. Once there, he treated and stabilized four more Soldiers. After treating the wounded, then-Staff Sergeant Shurer began evacuating them, carrying and lowering the casualties down the mountainside, using his body to shield them from enemy fire and debris. After he loaded the wounded in the evacuation helicopter, he retook control of his commando squad and rejoined the fight. Then-Staff Sergeant Shurer's heroic actions saved the lives of his teammates.
PERSONAL BACKGROUND:
On September 18, 2002, Ronald Shurer enlisted into the United States Army in Spokane, Washington, and entered initial training in November 2002. He was promoted from Sergeant to Staff Sergeant on December 1, 2006. He served with Combined Joint Special Operations Task Force in Afghanistan from November 28, 2007, to May 31, 2008. He was honorably discharged on May 21, 2009. He began his career with the Secret Service as a Special Agent assigned to the Phoenix Field Office on September 14, 2009. He was selected for the Secret Service's Counter Assault Team and assigned to the Special Operations Division on June 1, 2014. He resides in Burke, Virginia, with his wife Miranda and sons Cameron, 10, and Tyler, 7.
Additional Information
THE MEDAL OF HONOR:The Medal of Honor is awarded by the President, in the name of Congress, to members of the Armed Forces who distinguish themselves conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of their own lives above and beyond the call of duty while:

engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States;
engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing foreign force; or
serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a belligerent party.

The meritorious conduct must involve great personal bravery or self-sacrifice so conspicuous as to clearly distinguish the individual above his or her comrades and must have involved risk of life. There must be incontestable proof of the performance of the meritorious conduct, and each recommendation for the award must be considered on the standard of extraordinary merit.
PRESS CREDENTIALING:
Additional information about media credentials will be released at a later date.
  