
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Bemidji tonight, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Minnesota families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Minnesota the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program protected over 1 million Minnesota jobs by providing over $11.2 billion worth of loans to more than 102,000 Minnesota businesses.
More than 2.7 million Minnesotans received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $4.7 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing up to $2.1 billion worth of aid to the state of Minnesota and more than $472 million to 3,758 health care providers in the state.

Minnesota businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Minnesota workers and businesses.
In the last 4 months, Minnesota added back 176,000 jobs following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus.
Minnesota added more than 50,800 new jobs in the first three years of the Trump Administration, including 5,300 new manufacturing jobs.
In March, Minnesota's unemployment rate fell to just 2.9%. Prior to the Trump Administration, 2000 was the last time Minnesota's unemployment rate was that low.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to add over 24,100 new Minnesota jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 128 Minnesota communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Minnesota's economy:

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Minnesota's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports $7.2 billion annually in goods to Canada and Mexico.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports 233,800 jobs in Minnesota.
The USMCA will open up Canada's market for dairy exports, allowing Minnesota's dairy producers to sell more milk and cheese. Minnesota is the nation's eighth largest milk producer, with the milk industry contributing $25.7 billion to the state's economy annually.
President Trump is defending Minnesota farmers and agriculture producers from China by providing $1 billion in direct USDA payments to Minnesota farmers.

But Joe Biden's radical, far-left agenda will decimate Minnesota workers and families:

The terrible trade deals that Biden supported during his 44 years as a career politician in Washington killed Minnesota jobs.

Minnesota lost 13,700 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden supported.
Minnesota lost 38,100 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalized trade relations with China, which killed 88,300 Minnesota jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies and promise to "end fossil fuel" would devastate Minnesota workers and businesses.

The oil, gas, and coal industries support more than 118,000 jobs in Minnesota and contribute more than $14 billion to the state's economy annually.
More than 77% of Minnesota's homes are heated by natural gas, fuel oil, or propane, fuels that Biden wants to eliminate.
More than one-third of Minnesota's electricity grid is generated by coal.


Biden's plan endangers the private health insurance that 3.5 million Minnesotans rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 49 of Minnesota's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care. That's nearly 80% of Minnesota's rural hospitals.


Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. More than 56,000 students are enrolled in over 220 charter schools across Minnesota.

  