
    The President today appointed the following individuals to be members of the President's Export Council:
Joseph A. Boyd, of Florida, is chairman and chief executive officer of Harris Corp. in Melbourne, FL. He was born March 25, 1921, in Oscar, KY, and now resides in Indialantic, FL.
Edward A. Brennan, of Illinois, is president and chief operating officer of Sears, Roebuck and Co. in Chicago, IL. He was born January 16, 1934, in Chicago and now resides in Burr Ridge, IL.
Philip Caldwell, of Michigan, is retired chairman of the board of Ford Motor Co. in Bloomfield Hills, MI. He was born January 27, 1920, in Bourneville, OH, and now resides in Bloomfield Hills.
Colby H. Chandler, of New York, is chairman and chief executive officer of Eastman Kodak Co. in Rochester, NY. He was born May 15, 1925, in Strong, ME, and now resides in Honeoye Falls, NY.
Douglas D. Danforth, of Pennsylvania, is chairman and chief executive officer of Westinghouse Electric Corp. in Pittsburgh, PA. He was born September 25, 1922, in Syracuse, NY, and now resides in Venetia, PA.
Russell L. Hanlin, of California, is president and chief executive officer of Sunkist Growers, Inc., in Sherman Oaks, CA. He was born November 18, 1932, in Sioux Falls, SD, and now resides in Pasadena, CA.
Arthur H. Hausman, of California, is chairman of AMPEX Corp. in Redwood City, CA. He was born November 24, 1923, in Chicago, IL, and now resides in Atherton, CA.
Edward G. Jefferson, of Delaware, is chairman and chief executive officer of E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Co. in Wilmington, DE. He was born July 15, 1921, in London, England, and now resides in Wilmington.
James E. Jenkins, of California, is president of Transworld Group Limited in Washington, DC. He was born September 12, 1923, in Oklahoma City, OK, and now resides in Arlington, VA.
Whitney MacMillan, of Minnesota, is chairman and chief executive officer of Cargill, Inc., in Wayzata, MN. He was born September 25, 1929, in Minneapolis, MN, and now resides in Wayzata.
Lee L. Morgan, of Illinois, is chairman and chief executive officer of Caterpillar Tractor Co. in Peoria, IL. He was born January 4, 1920, in Aledo, IL, and now resides in Peoria.
John J. Murphy, of Texas, is chairman, chief executive officer, and president of Dresser Industries, Inc., in Dallas, TX. He was born November 24, 1931, in Olean, NY, and now resides in Dallas.
J. Bonnie Newman, of New Hampshire, is president of the Business and Industry Association of New Hampshire in Concord. She was born June 2, 1945, in Lawrence, MA, and now resides in Durham, NH.
Robert W. Page, Sr., of Texas, is chairman and chief executive officer of Kellogg Rust, Inc., in Houston, TX. He was born January 22, 1927, in Dallas, TX, and now resides in Houston.
Van P. Smith, of Indiana, is chairman and president of Ontario Corp. in Muncie, IN. He was born September 8, 1928, in Oneida, NY, and now resides in Muncie, IN.
George J. Stathakis, of Connecticut, is president and chief executive officer of General Electric Trading Co. in New York City. He was born April 22, 1930, in Martinez, CA, and now resides in New York City.
Stephen M. Studdert, of Utah, is president of Commerce Consultants International, Ltd., in Washington, DC. He was born November 17, 1948, in Pataluma, CA, and now resides in Morgan, UT.
David S. Tappan, Jr., of California, is chairman and chief executive officer of Fluor Corp. in Irvine, CA. He was born May 27, 1922, in Hainan, China, and now resides in Newport Beach, CA.
Charles Parry Tyson, of California, is former Deputy Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. He was born July 25, 1941, in San Diego, CA, and now resides in Madrid, Spain.
Thornton A. Wilson, of Washington, is chairman and chief executive officer of the Boeing Co. in Seattle, WA. He was born February 8, 1921, in Sikeston, MO, and now resides in Seattle.
David C. Scott, currently serves as Chairman. He has been a member of the Council since August 13, 1981.
  