
    Carin M. Barth, of Texas, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice Angela Antonelli, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Jonathan W. Dudas, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, vice James Edward Rogan, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Albert A. Frink, Jr., of California, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Linda Mysliwy Conlin, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Susan Johnson Grant, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy, vice Bruce Marshall Carnes, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Ricardo H. Hinojosa, of Texas, to be Chair of the United States Sentencing Commission, vice Diana E. Murphy, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Nadine Hogan, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring June 26, 2008, vice Frank D. Yturria, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Stephen L. Johnson, of Maryland, to be Deputy Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Linda J. Fisher, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Paul Jones, of Colorado, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2008, vice Charles L. Kolbe, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
James R. Kunder, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Wendy Jean Chamberlin, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Jon D. Leibowitz, of Maryland, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for a term of seven years from September 26, 2003, vice Mozelle Willmont Thompson, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Deborah P. Majoras, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for the unexpired term of seven years from September 26, 2001, vice Timothy J. Muris, resigned, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
John D. Rood, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Enrique J. Sosa, of Florida, to be a Member of the Reform Board (Amtrak) for a term of five years, vice Linwood Holton, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Charles Graves Untermeyer, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Qatar, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Jack Vaughn, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2006, vice Patricia Hill Williams, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Gary Lee Visscher, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board for a term of five years, vice Isadore Rosenthal, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Richard Kenneth Wagner, of Florida, to be a Member of the National Institute for Literacy Advisory Board for a term expiring November 25, 2006, vice Robin Morris, term expired, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Scott Kevin Walker, of Wisconsin, to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Anthony S. Earl, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Roger W. Wallace, of Texas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2008, vice Fred P. DuVal, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Aldona Wos, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia, to which position she was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
  