
    This fall, the White House will open its gardens and grounds to visitors. The grounds will be open on Saturday, October 19, from 10:00 AM to 4:30 PM, and Sunday, October 20, from 10:00 AM to 2:30 PM. On these days, visitors can discover the beauty of the South Lawn of the White House. The Jacqueline Kennedy Garden, Rose Garden, and the White House Kitchen Garden will also be accessible to guests.
This event is free and open to the public. A ticket is required, however, for all attendees (including small children). The National Park Service (NPS) will distribute free, timed tickets at a tent stationed near the entry point each day beginning at 8:30 AM. The entry point for all guests, including those going to the NPS tent, will be located near the intersection of 15th Street and Constitution Avenue Northwest.
Tickets will be distributed—one ticket per person—on a first-come, first-served basis.
Please note the following items are not allowed on the White House grounds:
· Aerosols of any kind· Animals (except service/ guide dogs)· Backpacks and bags (oversized)· Balloons· Bicycles/recreational scooters· Drones and other unmanned aircraft systems· Electric stun guns· Explosives· Firearms / ammunition· Glass, thermal, or metal containers· Lighters and matches· Laser Pointers· Mace / pepper spray· Packages· Selfie sticks· Structures· Supports for signs and placards· Weapons of any kind· Toy weapons of any kind· Any other items determined to be potential safety hazards
The Secret Service reserves the right to prohibit any other personal items. However, strollers, wheelchairs, umbrellas (no metal tips), and cameras are permitted. All items needed for medical purposes will be permitted on the tour (such as wheelchairs, electric scooters, glucose tablets, and EpiPens). Please identify and explain all items needed for medical purposes to Secret Service agents upon arrival.
In the event of inclement weather, the event may be cancelled. Please call the 24-hour information line at (202) 456-7041 to check on the status of the event.
  