
    Pool Reports by David Smith, The Guardian



Sent:
Reports:




 September 11, 2020 05:39

 WH in-town pool report #1/ Checking in 
Greetings from the White House on a warm and humid day. The door to the briefing room was unlocked and opened to the pool at 5.26am.
POTUS is due to depart from the south lawn at 7.30am for a trip to the Flight 93 National Memorial in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and is due to host a Medal of Honor Ceremony at the White House at 3pm. 


 September 11, 2020 07:42

 WH in-town pool report #2/ Bad weather motorcade to JBA 
POTUS is motorcading to Joint Base Andrews instead of flying on Marine One due to a bad weather call.
The motorcade started rolling at 7.41am. From the press van, pool could not see POTUS. 


 September 11, 2020 08:06

 WH in-town pool report #3/ JBA arrival 
Motorcade reached Joint Base Andrews at 8.02am after an uneventful journey. Numerous grey US Air Force planes and Air Force One are on the tarmac. 


 September 11, 2020 08:10

 WH in-town pool report #4/ POTUS boards Air Force One 
POTUS and FLOTUS boarded Air Force One at 8.06am. POTUS turned and waved.
In-town pool is back in the van and rolling. Handing off to travel pool. 


 September 11, 2020

[APP Note: Report #5 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


 September 11, 2020 12:17

 WH in-town pool report #6/ Marine One lands 
Marine One touched down on the south lawn at 12.15pm.
David Smith 


 September 11, 2020 12:28

 WH in-town pool report #7/ No POTUS remarks 
POTUS, wearing a blue suit, and FLOTUS, wearing a black coat, dark glasses and black high heels, disembarked Marine One at 12.18pm. They walked across the south lawn holding hands. POTUS acknowledged reporters but did not answer shouted questions.
As they went into the south portico, POTUS placed his hand in the small of FLOTUS's back and followed her through the doorway. Shortly after, POTUS could be seen walking with senior staff towards the Oval Office. 


 September 11, 2020 12:33

 WH in-town pool report #8/ Larry Kudlow 
Your pooler caught the last five minutes of Larry Kudlow speaking on the White House driveway, including high praise for POTUS's nomination for the Nobel Peace Prize. C-SPAN has the full video:
https://www.c-span.org/video/?475687-1/larry-kudlow-remarks-white-house


 September 11, 2020 13:20

 WH in-town pool report #9/ Oval Office 
Pool is now holding outside the Oval Office. 


 September 11, 2020 13:11

 WH in-town pool report #10/ Bahrain and Israel peace deal 
POTUS is speaking in the Oval Office, saying Bahrain will fully normalize relations with Israel.
"This is a truly historic day.... So interesting that it's on 9/11."
"When I took office the Middle East was in a state of absolute chaos."
Mike Pence, Jared Kushner, Steven Mnuchin and others are standing behind him.
More to follow. 


 September 11, 2020 13:24

 WH in-town pool report #11/ More from Oval Office 
POTUS on the Middle East: "Even great warriors get tired of fighting, and they're tired of fighting."
POTUS said he feels something "very positive" can happen with Iran.
"I can see a lot of good things happening with respect to the Palestinians."
POTUS did not take questions and pool left the room.
More to follow. 


 September 11, 2020 13:42

 WH in-town pool report #12/ Lunch lid 
A lunch lid was called until 2.30pm. 


 September 11, 2020 13:55

 WH in-town pool report #13/ POTUS's opening remarks on Bahrain-Israel peace deal 
Pool was led into the Oval Office just after 1pm. POTUS, sitting behind the Resolute desk, said: "Just a few moments ago, I hosted a historic call between Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and King Hamad Al Khalifa of Bahrain. Both leaders expressed their condolences as well to the American people on this very, very tragic, horrible event that took place on September 11th and they very much meant it. I thanked them for that.
"There's no more powerful response to the hatred that spawned 9/11 than the agreement that we're about to tell you. You will hear something today that's, I think, very, very important for not only the Middle East, but for the world. In the spirit of peace and cooperation, both leaders also agreed that Bahrain will fully normalise its diplomatic relations with Israel. They will exchange embassies and ambassadors, begin direct flights between their countries and launch cooperation initiatives across a broad range of sectors, including health, business, technology, education, security and agriculture.
"This is a truly historic day. There have been two peace agreements with Israel in the last 72 years. This is now the second peace agreement that we've announced in the last month. And I am very hopeful that there will be more to follow. I can tell you there's tremendous enthusiasm on behalf of other countries to also join. And we think ultimately we will have most countries join and you're gonna have the Palestinians in a very good position. They want to come in. They're going to want to come in because all of their friends are in. We have tremendous enthusiasm for coming into the deal.
"I want to thank the group of very talented people behind me and you're going to be hearing from them in a second. But just a very historic day, a very important day, and so interesting that it's on 9/11. It's such a great time. We didn't know this was going to happen in terms of the timing, but it did happen and we're very honoured.
"When I took office, the Middle East was in a state of absolute chaos. I've restored trust with our regional partners and together we've eliminated the ISIS caliphate 100%, isolated the radicals who pervert Islam and sow instability. Today nations across the region and throughout the world are joining together, united in their determination to build a better future, free from the evils which perpetuate terror.
"And I think you see that. I think you see that happening very, very strongly. I also spoke with King Salman in Saudi Arabia and we talked about this, and he is a great gentleman. And what they've done in terms of fighting terror is a much different ballgame than it was before we attained this office. The fact is that Saudi Arabia was doing things that they're not doing anymore and so are other countries and neighbours. They are doing things that they just would never have done. Their levels and all of the things, all of the many, many elements of fighting and hate, they seem to be evaporating.
"And we'll find out very soon but they seem to be evaporating. So things are happening in the Middle East that nobody thought was even possible to think about. And that's what's going on right now. Bahrain has agreed to join Israel and the United Arab Emirates and by the way I want to thank Mohammed, who's a great leader, a truly great leader.
"At the White House on Tiuesday, they'll be here on Tuesday for the signing of the Abraham Accords. The significance of the signing will be elevated from an already historic breakthrough to one representing a previously unthinkable regional transformation.
"And that's exactly what it is, it's unthinkable that this could happen and so fast. And as you know, when we did the original signing which will actually take place in terms of official on Tuesday, United Arab Emirates, people thought that was amazing. And now they're hearing this and they're also hearing from other countries because they understand that other countries want to very much come in.
"On this occasion I want to thank the leaders of Israel and Bahrain for their vision and courage to forge this historic agreement. The leadership is proving that the future can be filled with hope and does not need to be predetermined by conflicts of the past. We know all about the conflicts of the past, they're very legendary. There was a lot of problems going on but we've been able to work things out to a level that nobody thought possible. This is really something very special, very, very special.
"As more countries normalise relations with Israel, which will happen quite quickly we believe, the region will become more and more stable, secure and prosperous. In the meantime, we're pulling our soldiers out, so we're doing it the opposite way. They were doing it with nothing but fighting and blood all over the place. The sand was loaded up with blood. And now we can see that a lot of that sand is going to be loaded up with peace. The United States will continue to stand with the people of the region and work with them and build a brighter and much more hopeful future. So we're very proud of this.
"And as time goes by, I think you'll see more and more why I think most of you realise how important it is. Even The New York Times was very generous in their appraisal of the original deal, and they never thought - I think nobody thought - this was going to happen so quickly after the first. But they'll both be here on Tuesday. They're going to be signing.
"Benjamin Netanyahu will be here, the prime minister will be here, Israel. And we look forward to that. Just on this deal because of the importance of the deal, we'll take some questions but first, I'd like to ask Jared to say a few words and Mike Pence to say a few words and some of the folks. David, I'd like you to say something about it, because it's so historic and these people have worked so hard and so long on it. This is really the culmination of a long period of time. Let's put it that way. I don't want to say how long but it's a long period of time. It's a great thing."
More to follow. 


 September 11, 2020 14:10

 WH in-town pool report #14/ Kushner and Pence remarks on Bahrain-Israel peace deal 
POTUS handed over to Jared Kushner, Senior Advisor to the President, who said: "Thank you, Mr President, and first I want to thank you for your leadership on this issue. Your first foreign trip was to Saudi Arabia, where you outlined a vision for the region and all of the promises you made on that trip and all of the things that you've foreshadowed have occurred. It's been a strategy that you've stuck with and I want to thank you for giving me the trust and confidence that you've given me in order to work on this file over the last years. And I think the results that we've achieved has been beyond anyone's expectations. And I believe that there's even more to come.
"I just returned from the region last week. I was in the Middle East where I took the first commercial flight that's ever flown from Israel to the United Arab Emirates. That flight flew over Saudi Arabian airspace. It was the first time in 72 years that Saudi Arabia has now waived their airspace to allow commercial flights to fly from Israel back and forth. Bahrain did the same thing. The United Arab Emirates waived a 48-year boycott on Israel, which was an incredible development. And there are now delegations moving throughout the Middle East figuring out how to bring the people closer together.
"What President Trump has done here is unthinkable. He's brought people in the Middle East together. There's been these barriers that have existed that have led to so much instability, so much war, so much loss, so much hopelessness. And we're seeing so much hopefulness now coming. And I will say something that I never thought would be the case, which is that on this last trip, the amount of optimism that has happened that we're experiencing the Middle East is truly incredible.
"So I just want to congratulate you. I want to congratulate the people of Israel. I want to congratulate the people from the kingdom of Bahrain. I want to thank their tremendous leadership. And I also want to congratulate the people of the Middle East, because the first deal that you were able to accomplish was so popular that things are really starting to move in a really strong direction and this makes America safer and allows us to bring our troops home and allows us to work on bringing prosperity to American communities. So really, thank you for your leadership and congratulations on this great success. Great job."
Then Vice President Mike Pence said: "Mr President, I can think of no more fitting tribute to the heroes that were forged on this day 19 years ago and all the heroes that were forged on battlefields ever since than to see this peace agreement announced today.
"Mr President, you said from early on that we could stand with Israel and we could stand for peace. The very first foreign trip to the Arab world to reach out to create new alliances; you affirmed our support for Israel when you moved the American embassy to Jerusalem and the strength with which you have approached this has made now the second historic peace agreement possible. I want to congratulate and thank you Mr President for your leadership.
"I also want to thank the people of the Kingdom of Bahrain and the people of Israel for finding a way forward to begin to take one more step towards peace in the Middle East and to know that in this president and the American people they will have an ally with this. Good book says 'Blessed are the peacemakers'. Mr President, I just wanna congratulate you, congratulate Prime Minister Netanyahu and King Hamad of Bahrain on bringing peace between their nations and widening the region of peace. Congratulations."
More to follow. 


 September 11, 2020 14:48

 WH in-town pool report #15/ More POTUS remarks on Bahrain-Israel peace deal 
POTUS talked about past failures to achieve Middle East peace. "Well, they had a lot of bad thinking, a lot of bad concepts, a lot of things that I never thought were going to work. These were the ones we were relying on to make the deals and they wasted 35 years, they wasted many years, and they're the ones that have been critical of us and look what's happening. Now they're all of a sudden saying, I think they made a mistake. They're all saying that about themselves.
"So I just want to thank this group in particular for staying here and helping us out and doing things that nobody thought could have happened. And under the old concepts of national defence or whatever category you want to put it under, that wasn't working and it was never going to work. We changed things around very drastically and decided to negotiate... The good news is we have many other countries in the Middle East that want to be in this. And that means peace because they're tired of fighting. You know, they can fight and they're all great fighters and they're warriors, but even great warriors get tired of fighting and they're tired of fighting.
"And I can see things positively happening with Iran. Ultimately, I think that can all work out very well. And I think that so many great things are going to happen. And then we can also discuss the Palestinians. I think the Palestinians are going to end up doing something that's going to be very smart for them and all their friends are coming into this and they want to come into it, they want to come into it very badly. I can see a lot of good things happening with respect to the Palestinians, which would be really wonderful, whether you were on their side or not on their side. People want to see it all brought to an end and brought to an end quickly. So that's going to be very important, but it's a very historic day."
After some more contributions from around the room, POTUS added: ""They're tired of fighting. No matter how they are, no matter how great a warrior they are. And you have some great warriors. I know most of them, but it's time. Thank you all very much."
POTUS's team applauded and he did not take questions from the pool, which was led out at 1.23pm. 


 September 11, 2020 15:10

 WH in-town pool report #16/ Medal of Honor ceremony 
Pool is now gathered in the East Room for a ceremony where POTUS will present the Medal of Honor to Sergeant Major Thomas Payne, US Army.
Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, is present in uniform. Defense Secretary Mark Esper is wearing a suit. Other attendees are wearing uniforms or civilian clothes, standing and talking while they await POTUS's entrance. 


 September 11, 2020 15:23

 WH in-town pool report #17/ POTUS enters East Room 
Mark Meadows, Mike Pence and FLOTUS entered the East Room, where guests are not wearing face masks.
At 3.18pm, POTUS and Sergeant Major Thomas Payne walked in together and stood on the podium. A prayer was said.
Livestream here:
https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f... 


 September 11, 2020 15:30

 WH in-town pool report #18/ Payne ceremony details 
From the White House press office:
Today, President Donald J. Trump will award the Medal of Honor to Sergeant Major Thomas P. Payne, United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry.
On October 22, 2015, during a daring nighttime hostage rescue in Kirkuk Province, Iraq, in support of Operation INHERENT RESOLVE, then-Sergeant First Class Payne led a combined assault team charged with clearing one of two buildings known to house hostages. Sergeant Payne's extraordinary heroism and selfless actions were key to liberating 75 hostages during a contested rescue mission that resulted in 20 enemy fighters killed in action.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpThe First LadyThe Vice President Lieutenant General Keith Kellogg (Ret.), Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice PresidentMark Meadows, Assistant to the President and Chief of StaffMatthew Pottinger, Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor
Trump AdministrationSecretary Mark Esper, Secretary of DefenseSecretary Ryan McCarthy, Secretary of the ArmyGeneral Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffGeneral James McConville, Chief of Staff of the ArmyChief Master Sergeant Ramon Colon-Lopez, Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint ChiefsSergeant Major of the Army Michael Grinston,Sergeant Major of the Army
Members of CongressRepresentative Richard Hudson, R-NC 


 September 11, 2020 15:37

 WH in-town pool report #19/ POTUS presents medal 
After a speech, POTUS put the medal around Payne's neck then invited Payne's wife and son to join him on the podium. A prayer was said.
POTUS said: "Congratulations." He left with FLOTUS, followed by Payne, at 3.34pm. 


 September 11, 2020 16:30

 WH in-town pool report #20/ Payne statement 
After the medal ceremony, Army Sergeant Major Thomas Payne came to the sticks and delivered a brief statement:
"My fellow Americans. Thank you. This is truly an honour. The Hawijah hostage rescue raid on October 22nd, 2015, underlined our country's undying commitment to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Members of the United States Special Operations Command risked their lives. Master Sergeant Josh Wheeler gave his life in order to liberate the oppressed.
"Therefore, the liberated now has a second chance at the pursuit of happiness. The actions by my team-mates were truly awe inspiring. Makes you proud to be an American... The spirit of the Medal of Honor lives inside every American. Thank you."
Payne did not take questions. 




Pool Reports below by Annie Karni, The New York Times



Sent:
Reports:




 September 11, 2020 08:10

 Out of town pool report #1 
Good morning from a muggy JBA, where POTUS arrived by motorcade at 8:04 am after a bad weather call this morning.
He is en route to Shanksville, Pa, to participate in an observance at the Flight 93 National Memorial.
He arrived with Melania Trump, who was dressed in black with black sunglasses. He waved to the press from the top of the stairs. POTUS was holding papers in his hand when he got out of a Suburban in front of the plane.
Other aides spotted boarding AF1: Dan Scavino, Derek Lyons and Johnny McEntee. 


 September 11, 2020 08:51

 Out of town pool report #2 
Potus landed in Johnstown, Pa at 8:44 am.
At 8:46 am, potus and flotus participated in a moment of silence in a conference room cabin to commemorate the moment the first plane hit the World Trade Center.
Potus made no remarks. Mark Meadows explained to him ahead of time that there would be an announcement at 8:46 am when the moment of silence would begin. Potus stood with his arms clasped. flotus stood next to him in same position.
"God bless America," Meadows said when the moment of silence was concluded.
Potus repeated, "god bless America."
Also in the room on the plane: Elaine Chao, Dan Scavino, Kayleigh McEnany.
>From earlier —
We were wheels up from JBA at 8:15 am.
(Sorry for not getting previous pool report out before take off — we are on the small plane and I forgot there's no service once you step on board. I resent it.) 


 September 11, 2020 08:54

 Out of town pool report #3 - photos 
Here are photos of potus and flotus observing moment of silence aboard AF1.
The announcement on board asked everyone to stand and observe the moment of silence with the president and First Lady. 


 September 11, 2020 09:00

 Out of town pool report 4 
Potus and flotus debarked AF1 at 8:56 am.
We are headed to ospreys to go to Shanksville, PA.
Potus is boarding marine one at 8:58 am.
List of greeters TK. 


 September 11, 2020 09:26

 Out of town pool report 5 
Ospreys landed at 9:14 am in a light rain.
Staff helicopter landed in an open field at 9:21 am.
Marine One followed at 9:23 am.
We were loaded into press vans before we could see POTUS deboard.
Attached is the list of greeters who net POTUS at the airport 


 September 11, 2020 09:31

 Out of town pool report #6 
Motorcade is rolling to the Flight 93 National Memorial site at 9:30 am. 


 September 11, 2020 09:44

 Out of town pool report #7 
Potus arrived at the Flight 93 National memorial site at 9:35 am.
A podium with a presidential seal is set up for the president's remarks, in front of the wall of names commemorating the 40 passengers and crew who were killed on the flight.
Flags behind the podium — Australia, Japan, Puerto Rico, Germany and USA — represent the nationalities of people who were on board.
Folding chairs are set up in the grass in front of the dais, all about six feet apart. It's very sparse. Many of the attendees are wearing masks but some are not. Secretary Chao is wearing a face mask as she talks to people in the audience. She was seen without a mask aboard AF1.
Potus is currently behind the wall of names and we are awaiting the program to start. 


 September 11, 2020 09:46

 Out of town pool report #8 
Passing along from WH spokesman Judd Deere:
Today, President Donald J. Trump and First Lady Melania Trump will visit Shanksville, Pennsylvania and the Flight 93 National Memorial to mark the 19^thanniversary of the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks on our country and to honor and remember the lives tragically lost.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. TrumpFirst Lady Melania Trump
The Trump Administration Secretary David Bernhardt, Department of the InteriorSecretary Elaine Chao, Department of TransportationDirector Christopher Wray, Director of the Federal Bureau of InvestigationAssistant Secretary Rob Wallace, Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife and ParksPrincipal Deputy Assistant Secretary John Tanner,Department of the Interior, Fish and Wildlife and Parks
Members of CongressSenator Bob Casey, United States Senator from PennsylvaniaRepresentative Glenn Thompson, United States Representative from Pennsylvania's 15th Congressional DistrictRepresentative John Joyce, United States Representative from Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional DistrictRepresentative Dan Meuser, United States Representative from Pennsylvania's 9th Congressional District
External ParticipantsStephen Clark, Superintendent of Flight 93 National MemorialEd Root, Vice President, Families of Flight 93Nancy Root, Spouse of Ed RootReverend Steven McKeown, Chaplain, Federal Bureau of InvestigationMaryJane Hartman, Chief of Interpretation and Education, Flight 93 National Memorial (Retired)Marissa Yee, Ceremonial Bagpiper 


 September 11, 2020 09:52

 Out of town pool report #9 — excerpts 
Here are excerpts as prepared from Potus speech.
(Note — ceremony will be live-streamed and not pooled.)
Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's remarks at Flight 93 National Memorial Nineteenth Anniversary Observance in Shanksville, Pennsylvania (as prepared)…19 years ago, on this day, at this hour, on this field, 40 brave men and women triumphed over terror and gave their lives in defense of our nation.…Today, we pay tribute to their sacrifice – and we mourn deeply for the nearly 3,000 precious and beautiful souls who were taken from us on September 11th, 2001.…The heroes of Flight 93 are an everlasting reminder that no matter the danger, no matter the threat, no matter the odds, America will always rise up, stand tall, and FIGHT BACK.…To every 9/11 family all across this nation: The First Lady and I come to this hallowed ground deeply aware that we cannot fill the void in your heart or erase the terrible sorrow of this day. […] We promise you the unwavering love, support and devotion of ALL AMERICANS.…The only thing that stood between the enemy and a deadly strike at the heart of American Democracy was the courage and resolve of 40 men and women – the amazing passengers and crew of Flight 93.…In the days and weeks after 9/11, citizens of all faiths, backgrounds, colors and creeds came together, prayed together, mourned together, and rebuilt together. The song "God Bless America" became a rallying cry for the nation.…We were united by our conviction that America was the world's most exceptional country, blessed with the most incredible heroes, and that this was a land worth defending with our very last breath. It was a unity based on love for our families, care for our neighbors, loyalty to our fellow citizens, pride in our flag, gratitude for our police and first responders, faith in God—and a refusal to bend our will to the depraved forces of violence, intimidation, oppression and evil.…We express our undying loyalty to the nearly 6 million young men and women who have enlisted in the United States Armed Forces since September 11th, 2001. More than 7,000 Military Heroes have laid down their lives since 9/11 to preserve our freedom. No words can express the summit of their glory or the infinite depth of our gratitude. But we will strive every single day to repay our immeasurable debt and prove worthy of their supreme sacrifice.…America will never relent in pursuing terrorists that threaten our people.…Our sacred task, our righteous duty, and our solemn pledge, is to carry forward the noble legacy of the brave souls who gave their lives for us 19 years ago.…In their memory, we resolve to stand united as one American nation, to defend our freedoms—to uphold our values—to love our neighbors—to cherish our country—to care for our communities—to honor our heroes—and to NEVER FORGET.


 September 11, 2020 10:10

 Out of town pool report #10 
The names of the 40 passengers and crew who were killed aboard Flight 93 were read. Two bells tolled after the reading of each name.
Flotus sat almost completely motionless throughout the reading of the names, legs crossed, arms folded in her lap.
Potus sat beside her, looking down, then turning his attention to the tolling bells, then looking out into the sparse crowd and rearranging himself in his chair with his arms crossed.
The weather added to the somber scene — it's chilly, foggy and wet.
At 10:10 am Potus and Flotus bowed their heads to participate in a moment of silence. 


 September 11, 2020 10:26

 Out of town pool report #11 
Trump is now speaking and his remarks are being live streamed.
And apologies, one correction to previous report —
"Flags behind the podium — Australia, Japan, Puerto Rico, Germany and USA — represent the nationalities of people who were on board."
One passenger on board was from New Zealand, not Australia. 


 September 11, 2020 10:48

 Out of town pool report #12 
After concluding his remarks, POTUS participated in a wreath laying ceremony at 10:40 am, along with the First Lady; Ed Root, the cousin of flight attendant Lorraine G. Bay; and Nancy Root, his wife.
Mr Root is the VP of "families of flight 93."
The group of four stood in front of a large wreath with a white bow and flowers and then placed their hands on it.
"Amazing Grace" played.
They then bowed their heads for a moment of silence and salute to the families.
After about a minute, potus and flotus, holding hands, departed from the wall of names.
At 10:45 am, we are motorcading back to Marine One. 


 September 11, 2020 11:12

 Out of town pool report #13 
Ospreys took off at 10:55 am and landed back at the airport at 11:05 am.
Marine One touched down at 11:08 am.
Potus and Flotus held hands as they walked toward Air Fords One. He flashed a thumbs up at the press, waved from the top of the stairs, and then boarded the plane.
We will be wheels up shortly.
Below is a photo of POTUS leaving the wreath laying. 


 September 11, 2020 12:08

 Out of town pool report #14 
AF1 touched down at JBA at 11:55 am.
Potus de-boarded at 12:02 pm, with the First Lady, followed by Dan Scavino and Mark Meadows.
Marine One was wheels up at 12:07 pm.
Handing over to in-town pool. 



  