
    Alexandria, VA - Senator Lindsey Graham appeared on FOX News'Sunday Morning Futures with Maria Bartiromo this morning from Des Moines, Iowa where he discussed his 'breakout performance' at the CNNReagan Library Debate, how he intends to win the fight against radical Islam, standing up to China, the economy, and why he's better qualified to be Commander-in-Chief on day one out of the entire 2016 presidential field.
Senator Graham also addressed Dr. Carson's comments regarding Muslims and why they imply that he's not ready to lead our nation. Graham stated on Sunday, "I think this shows that Dr. Carson's not ready to be Commander-in-Chief." He added, "If he understood the world, and how dangerous it is, he would not say things like this. We have to partner with people in the faith to destroy radical Islam. And most Muslims throughout the world reject what radical Islam is trying to do to the world and their faith. So this is an example to me that Mr. Carson may be a good doctor, but he is not ready to lead a great nation."
Watch the full interview here:

Graham On His Performance During The CNN Reagan Library Debate: "[I Focused] In On Why I Am Best Qualified Above All Others To Be Commander-In-Chief On Day One."
"Well one, I had an audience. The first debate was like having a debate in a bathroom. So, interacting with people. But basically, loosening up, making some jokes to make a greater point. Having a determination to win a war that we can't afford to lose and focusing in on why I am best qualified above all others to be commander-in-chief on day one. Something that I think is going to matter over time."
On Why He's Best Qualified: "I Understand This War, I Have A Plan To Win, I Intend To Win It"
"35 trips to Iraq and Afghanistan in the last decade, I understand this war, I have a plan to win, I intend to win it, 33 years in the Air Force, 140 days on the ground in Iraq and Afghanistan. As a United States Air Force Reservist, I understand the military. I've been on the Armed Services Committee since my entire career. I am ready to lead the finest military in the history of the world. I intend to destroy radical Islam with a plan to do it. We've got to go back to Iraq with some more ground forces, get a regional army to go in on the ground in Syria and destroy ISIL. I intend to destroy radical Islam."
On Ben Carson's Comments On Muslims: "This Is An Example To Me That Mr. Carson May Be A Good Doctor, But He Is Not Ready To Lead A Great Nation."
"Number one, I think this shows that Dr. Carson's not ready to be Commander-in-Chief. He said that he didn't believe somebody of the Muslim faith could be loyal to the constitution. My belief is that an approximate 3,500 of American Muslims are wearing the uniform of the United States military, are loyal to their country, they're fighting and dying for their nation. When I was Colonel Graham — back in Afghanistan a couple of years ago during the second election of Karzai — I had an opportunity to go to a polling station during the election with military members in charge of providing security. One of those military members was a young man who grew up in Kabul, went to this particular high school, he came to America, he was a member of the United States Army, he was so proud of what happened in Afghanistan, he was proud to wear the uniform. I had a cup of coffee with him, and yes, one day, I hope that young man can grow up to be President of the United States. America is an idea. Not owned by a particular religion, race, or anything else...So I think Dr. Carson needs to apologize to this young man, and every other Muslim serving their country, and to the American Muslim community. And if he understood the world, and how dangerous it is he would not say things like this. We have to partner with people in the faith to destroy radical Islam. And most Muslims throughout the world reject what radical Islam is trying to do to the world and their faith. So this is an example to me that Mr. Carson may be a good doctor, but he is not ready to lead a great nation.
"What would he say to the young man that I met in Kabul who left Afghanistan, became an American citizen, joined the United States Army? What would he say to the approximately 3,500 American Muslims who have been to Iraq and Afghanistan fighting for our freedom, risking their lives? What he should say is thank you for serving our great nation. We're all in this together."
On Dealing With China: "I Would Have A Clenched Fist And An Open Hand."
"We particularly had that problem in steel where they were dumping steel into the world marketplace. They manipulate the value of the yuan, they keep it artificially low, they don't let it go to its true value, which creates a discount on every product made in China. What would I do with China? I would have a clenched fist and an open hand. I would tell them that no longer will they be able to hack into our systems without reprisal, no longer will they be able to cyber attack our country and steal intellectual property. If you want a good relationship, you have to act in a responsible fashion. I would push back against building islands over resource rich waters owned by others. And I would tell China, 'You're going to lose access to our markets if you keep cheating and you keep being provocative.' We will suffer, but they will suffer more. It is time to really reset the relationship with China."
On The Economy: "I Would Build This Economy By Unleashing Potential. Deregulate."
"You're never going to create a job in this economy, because it costs to much to create a job. Obamacare hangs over the entire economy. If you reduce work hours to 30 hours from 40, you're not covered by Obamacare. If you're a small business — which most people in the economy are — if you hire over 50, you're covered by Obamacare, so if you're at 48, you wouldn't go to 51. I would change Dodd Frank to allow people to have better access to capital. I would repeal and replace Obamacare with something that's more job-friendly. I would do something with the Highway Trust Fund. I'd repatriate corporate earnings parked overseas that won't come back over 35 percent. Have a one time good deal to put the money in the Highway Trust Fund. I'd build more nuclear power plants. I'd become more energy independent. I would build this economy by unleashing potential. Deregulate."
  