
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 20
In the morning, the President attended a brunch for Representative Donald Payne of New Jersey aboard the cruise ship Spirit of Washington at Pier 4 in Southwest.
In the early evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to New York City. Later, the President met with Prime Minister Romano Prodi of Italy at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel.
September 21
The President announced his intention to nominate David Michaels to be Assistant Secretary for Environment, Safety, and Health at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Eljay B. Bowron to be Inspector General of the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate William B. Bader to be Associate Director of Educational and Cultural Affairs at the U.S. Information Agency.
The President declared an emergency in the U.S. Virgin Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement territory and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges on September 21 and continuing.
The President declared an emergency in Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges on September 21 and continuing.
The White House announced that Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary will make a working visit to Washington on October 7.
September 22
In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
September 23
In the morning, the President met with President Nelson Mandela of South Africa in the President's Study.
In the afternoon, the President met separately with Head of State Abdulsalam Abubakar of Nigeria and with Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong of Singapore in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to appoint Daniel L. Doctoroff as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding associated with Tropical Storm Frances beginning and September 9 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Frances beginning September 9 and continuing.
September 24
In the afternoon, the President hosted a working lunch for Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia in the Old Family Dining Room. Following the luncheon, the President had telephone conversations with Chairman Yasser Arafat of the Palestinian Authority and Prime Minister Binyamin Netanyahu of Israel to discuss the Middle East peace process.
The President announced his intention to nominate William Clifford Smith to be a Commissioner on the Mississippi River Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate C. Donald Johnson, Jr., for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Chief Textile Negotiator.
The President announced his intention to nominate Luis Sequeria, Chang-Lin Tien, George Langford, Maxine Savitz, and Joseph Miller, to be members of the National Science Board.
The President declared a major disaster in the U.S. Virgin Islands and ordered Federal aid to supplement territory and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges on September 19-22.
September 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Chicago, IL. In the early evening, he traveled to San Jose, CA.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jack Quinn as a member of the Board of Directors of the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae).
The President today declared an emergency in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Georges on September 22 and continuing.
The President announced the creation of the White House Task Force on the 2002 Olympic and Paralympic Games. This task force will be an interagency effort to coordinate the extensive Federal activities involved in the planning and operation of the Salt Lake City Winter Games.
  