
    Pool Reports by Rozina Sabur, The Telegraph 



Sent:
Reports:




September 10, 202212:00

VP travel pool report #1: Checking in & background
Good afternoon from National Harbor. I'll be your print pooler for the Vice President's remarks at the DNC summer meeting, scheduled for 1pm. Pool is gathered at the Gaylord Convention Center.
On Background from a White House official:
At 1:00 PM EDT, the Vice President will deliver remarks at the 2022 Democratic National Committee summer meeting. She will be introduced by DNC Chairman Jamie Harrison.
Approximate # of people in attendance: 450
Speaking order:
1:00pm: Remarks begin at DNC Summer Meeting

VP introduced by DNC Chairman Jamie Harrison

1:20pm: VP remarks conclude
Full day speaking order:General Session Start TimeRep. Anthony Brown (MD-04) delivers welcome remarksResolutions Committee ReportFinance and Treasurer's ReportRules and Bylaws Committee ReportVacancies ElectionVacancies RatificationChair Harrison Panel with Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party Chair Ken Martin, Democratic Party of Wisconsin Chair Ben Wikler, New Hampshire Democratic Party Chair Ray Buckley, Maryland Democratic Party Chair Yvette Lewis, and Democratic Party of New Mexico Chair Jessica VelasquezStates Deep DiveChair Harrison delivers remarksVice President Kamala Harris delivers remarksAdjournment



September 10, 202212:24

VP travel pool report #2: Background on VP's remarks
Passing along some further background on the Vice President's remarks below. A full transcript will be provided by the VP's office later today so pool reports will stick to a few highlights.
On Background from a White House official
Today, at the DNC Summer meeting – VP Harris will champion the accomplishments of the Biden-Harris Administration and Democratic majorities in the House and Senate. She will remind voters what's at stake with less than 60 days to Election Day and draw clear contrast between what she describes as "Democrats fighting for all the people and extremist so-called leaders trumpeting the rhetoric of freedom while they restrict and systematically attempt to take away freedoms."



September 10, 202214:05

VP travel pool report #3: VP remarks conclude
VP took the stage of the RiverView Ballroom at 1.18pm to a warm reception from the audience. Everyone in the crowd appeared to be on their feet.
Earlier, your pooler spotted a very long line of DNC attendees lining up in the hopes of getting a photo with the VP ahead of her remarks.
VP began her speech by saying the "stakes are so high" with 59 days to go before the midterm elections.
Today's meeting, she said, was about reaffirming that Democrats would "refuse to let extremist, so-called leaders dismantle our democracy".
The VP's remarks touched on the administration's achievements over the last 18 months. While "Democrats have delivered big time"... Republicans have "gone on TV to opine about the situation," she said to cheers from the audience.
She warned that if Democrats lose their majority in Congress, then the rights to marriage equality, contraception and other rights "will be on the line".
She said: "Our President Joe Biden, he's been clear. He's kind of done with those archaic Senate rules that are standing in the way" of abortion rights and voting rights.
The VP went on to note that she has broken the record for casting the most tiebreaker votes in the Senate in a single term.
Looking forward to Democrats holding their majority in Congress, she said: "I cannot wait to cast the deciding vote to break the filibuster on voting rights and reproductive rights".
The line appeared to produce the loudest cheers yet from the audience. VP's remarks concluded at 1.43pm.



September 10, 202214:51

VP travel pool report #4: surprise AKA appearance
After VP's remarks, pool was ushered upstairs to a different part of the convention centre where Ms Harris' former sorority, Alpha Kappa Alpha, were holding a meeting.
Ms Harris, wearing a beige suit and dark blouse, surprised the room, entering shortly after 2pm. There was an explosion of excited cheers as she came in and headed to a podium at the front of the room.
Ms Harris spoke of her pride in the sorority, describing how, while traveling in the United States and abroad as VP, she often encounters fellow sorority sisters dressed in AKA's signature pink and green colours waiting to greet her.
She told the gathering: "We have a midterm coming up in 59 days and there's so much at stake. That you all know.
"And so I ask that we continue to serve in every way that we do, including encouraging people to use their voice through their vote, understanding that their voice matters, that they matter."
The VP said for "the women of America in particular right now, so much is on the line".
She went on: "So I would ask that in the spirit of sisterhood and the spirit of the great work of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority Incorporated, that we continue to organize community on every level".
VP has left the convention centre. This will be the final travel pool for the day.
A few details about the appearance on background from a White House official: 
VP Harris surprised the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. international mass committee meeting that is convening in the same convention space. She was welcomed by International President & CEO Danette Anthony Reed and 200+ sorority members from across the country.




  