
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. Brady, R-TX, and two cosponsors)
The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 3823, the Disaster Tax Relief and Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2017.
This legislation ensures the continued operation of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) through March 31, 2018. While the Administration supports this short-term extension of FAA authorities ahead of their scheduled expiration on September 30, 2017, it strongly urges the Congress to continue working toward modernization of our outdated air traffic control system. Specifically, the Administration supports legislation introduced by House Transportation and Infrastructure Committee Chairman Bill Shuster (R-PA), which would separate our antiquated air traffic control (ATC) service from the Federal Government and create a not-for-profit entity to finally help modernize our ATC system.
H.R. 3823 would also provide targeted tax relief for taxpayers impacted by Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, and Maria. In addition to supporting these tax relief measures, the Administration will submit further requests to the Congress for supplemental funding in the near future, and looks forward to working with Congress to enact these recovery measures into law.
The Administration strongly supports the inclusion of H.R. 1422, the Flood Insurance Market Parity and Modernization Act, which would clarify that privately-issued flood insurance policies satisfy mandatory purchase requirements, and would allow a property owner with a private policy to meet continuous coverage requirements for the purpose of re-enrolling in a subsidized Federal plan. This provision is an important, bipartisan step toward increasing the private market for flood insurance. The Administration looks forward to enacting further reforms to ensure the short and long-term solvency of the National Flood Insurance Program.
The Administration also strongly supports provisions of the bill that would provide temporary funding for medical training at teaching health centers and for diabetes prevention and treatment for Native Americans.
If H.R. 3823 were presented to the President in its current form, his advisors would recommend that he sign the bill into law.
  