
    Pool Reports by Josh Reyes, Atlanta Journal-Constitution 



Sent:
Reports:




September 14, 202319:25

Pool report from FLOTUS event in Atlanta
First Lady Jill Biden spoke to a crowd of supporters at a Biden Victory Fund fundraiser in the north Atlanta home of Sally and Comer Yates Thursday evening.
Biden arrived at 5:39 p.m. and spoke to about 60 people. Sally Yates is an attorney and the former acting Attorney General, and Comer Yates is the Executive Director of the Atlanta Speech School.
Remarks began at 5:51 p.m. in the Yates' living room with an introduction from Sally Yates. She listed job growth, building up infrastructure and combating climate change as accomplishments of President Joe Biden's administration and touted Jill Biden's career as an educator throughout her husband's political career.
Biden spoke for about 15 minutes and drew cheers by crediting Georgia's role in the 2020 election.
"All of you in the room made a difference. You lifted my husband over the top and got him to the presidency," she said.
Biden also told the crowd it wasn't too early to start talking about the 2024 election and asked the audience to talk to their friends about the administration's achievements, such as the recent drug price negotiation program and nominating Ketanji Brown Jackson to the Supreme Court.
She touted the importance of further policy changes such as universal pre-K and universal background checks for gun purchases.
"That's why we need to send Joe back for a second term – to finish the job," Biden said.
She declined to say the name of former President and frontrunner Republican nominee Donald J. Trump but predicted the election ahead may be uglier than before. She said his term was marked by "chaotic leadership."
She said: "We know what's in store with these extreme MAGA Republicans if we return them to power."
Comer Yates delivered closing remarks and an additional call to action for re-election. He ended his remarks at 6:18 p.m. and Biden left shortly after.




  