
    The Trump Administration is revoking California's Federal Waiver on emissions in order to produce far less expensive cars for the consumer, while at the same time making the cars substantially SAFER.
President Donald J. Trump
MAKING CARS SAFER AND MORE AFFORDABLE: The Trump Administration is taking action to make America's highways safer and our cars more affordable. 

The Trump Administration is putting in place the One National Program Rule, which is the first part of the Safer, Affordable, Fuel-Efficient (SAFE) Vehicles Rule.

The second part of the SAFE Vehicles Rule will replace the Obama-era Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) regulations, which hurt consumers and auto producers.


The One National Program Rule establishes a national standard on fuel economy, providing much-needed needed certainty for consumers and industry.

This action will revoke the waiver that has allowed California to put in place more burdensome standards.


The SAFE Vehicles Rule, once fully implemented, will help more Americans replace their old cars with newer, safer, and more fuel-efficient vehicles.
The SAFE Vehicles Rule will help restore American manufacturing and support economic growth by making it easier for automakers to build and sell cars at competitive prices.

ROLLING BACK OVERREGULATION: President Trump is reversing unrealistic and burdensome regulations that cost Americans and put their safety at risk. 

The excessive Obama-era CAFE standards effectively impose a tax on every American who wants to buy a new car and disproportionately hurt low-income Americans.
The burdensome CAFE standards would have led to fewer cars being sold, ultimately causing manufacturing layoffs and lost jobs for American workers.
President Trump's SAFE Vehicles Rule prevents California from forcing the auto industry to produce expensive cars that Americans do not want.

California does not have the authority to usurp Federal law by dictating fuel economy standards for the entire Nation.



PROMOTING GROWTH AND PROSPERITY: The SAFE Vehicles Rule builds on President Trump's historic deregulation, which is unleashing economic growth and increasing prosperity.

The SAFE Vehicles Rule will be one of the most significant deregulatory actions of the Trump Administration.
President Trump has followed through on his commitment to cutting burdensome and unnecessary regulations that stifle economic growth.

The Administration has taken 14 deregulatory actions for every new significant regulatory action.


These deregulatory actions are unleashing American economic growth by putting more money in Americans' pockets, encouraging business expansion, and creating jobs.

  