
    It was another great week for Governor Scott Walker on the campaign trail as he traveled through South Carolina, New York, Wisconsin and Texas sharing his message that Washington is broken and America badly needs a leader who is not only tested but prepared on Day One to get to work reforming Washington.
Just in case you haven't been following along all week, here are four things you don't want to miss.


In the wake of several tragic attacks against law enforcement in both Illinois and Texas, Governor Walker stood up and called for an end to the violence and to the kind of inflammatory and disgusting rhetoric inciting this hateful violence.
Writing in Hot Air, Walker said: "We need to change the tone in America from chants and rallies that fixate on racial division and instead follow the example of the families of the victims of the Charleston shooting, who showed us the best path forward is through unity. As president, that's what I'm going to do to make us a united America once again."


Not every Republican candidate running for president is prepared to take action on day one against Iran to keep Americans safe, but Governor Walker is. And to help underscore his commitment to ripping up President Obama's bad Iran deal on day one, he released this video reiterating that promise.

      NEW VIDEO: Governor Walker is committed on #DayOne to terminating this bad deal with #Iran. https://t.co/7kdWuTHbW7 — Scott Walker (@ScottWalker) August 31, 2015
    


If we asked you to write down as many of Hillary Clinton's accomplishments as you could think of on one piece of paper, how many could you come up with? She's been working in Washington for decades now and there should be tons, right? We took the test and we were completely stumped.

@Instagram is now supporting both landscape and portrait formats on Instagram. We wondered if Hillary's accomplishments looked any better with these expanded formats so we decided to take a pic. Turns out there's still nothing there. #walker16
A photo posted by Scott Walker (@scottwalker) on




Like many of you, it's that time of year again and kids are heading back to school. You may not know, but Governor Walker's two sons are in college and like any other dad would, he stopped by Marquette University to grab dinner and a beer with Matt and a few of his friends.
Stopped by @mattwalkerwi's apartment on campus & had late dinner and a beer at Miss Katie's Diner with him and some of his pals. - SW
A photo posted by Scott Walker (@scottwalker) on 



  