
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 5
In the morning, the President traveled from Martha's Vineyard, MA, to Bath, ME, where he toured the U.S.S. Laboon under construction at the Bath Iron Works Corp. In the afternoon, he returned to Martha's Vineyard.
September 6
The President announced his intention to nominate George J. Opfer to be Inspector General for the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jacquelyn L. Williams-Bridgers to be Inspector General for the Department of State.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jeffrey H. Smulyan as Head of the U.S. Delegation to the International Telecommunications Union Plenipotentiary Conference in Kyoto, Japan, September 19–October 15.
September 7
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned from their vacation on Martha's Vineyard, MA, to Washington, DC, where they stayed at Blair House, their residence until remodeling of the Residence at the White House is completed.
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities:
—Ralph B. Everett;
—Burnett Joiner;
—Earl S. Richardson;
—Myer L. Titus.
September 8
The President announced his intention to nominate Debbie Branson as Vice Chair and public member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation.
September 9
In the morning, the President traveled to New Orleans, LA, where he attended the Democratic National Committee Business Leadership Forum luncheon and met with the executive board of the National Conference of Black Mayors. In the afternoon, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Norwood J. Jackson, Jr., as the Inspector General for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.
The President announced his intention to nominate James (Bum) Atkins of Arkansas as Chair and member and Scott Lukins of Washington as a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Martha Farnsworth Riche of Maryland as Director of the Bureau of the Census, Department of Commerce.
  