
    Louis, Governor Thomson, distinguished guests:
At the very beginning, let me apologize for being late. We have had just unbelievable crowds beginning in Keene and running all the way across the State, west to east.
I just appreciate, beyond any words that I can express, my gratitude for your patience, your understanding, and your warm and hospitable reaction to our coming in at this time.
This trip to New Hampshire has been a great lift, and it has been a lift because I am convinced that the people of New Hampshire are interested in having their election decided by them and not by the politicians in Washington, D.C.
It was my privilege to come to your State Capitol in April and to urge at that time that the right answer was by the people and the wrong answer was by the politicians in the Nation's Capital. You have that opportunity now. You have probably the greatest opportunity to make a decisive decision next Tuesday.
I am proud to be here on behalf of a friend of mine, Louis Wyman, but I am equally proud to be in the great State of New Hampshire because I am here representing, along with others, a unified party, a party that is working together on behalf of Louis Wyman's election. Governor Thomson, last night Governor Reagan, earlier today--and he may be here now--Senator Norris Cotton, Congressman Jim Cleveland was with us--all I am trying to say is we have presented a unified front because we think it is a crucial election.
I am delighted to see [State Representative] Ruth Griffin here who so ably represents your area, and she, like all of us, is standing steadfast on behalf of Louis Wyman.
Let me ask you or tell you, if I might, why we stand together. Why are we interested in the election of Louis Wyman? Louis Wyman believes in a strong national defense with the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marines first and not second best, and that is important to the maintenance of peace throughout the world.
Secondly, related to that, you have got a great naval installation here in Portsmouth--one that is very significant from the national security point of view, one that is a very vital part of the economy of this part of New Hampshire. Let me speak very strongly that Louis Wyman in 1964 and again in 1972 almost single-handedly kept the Portsmouth Navy Yard open so we could have that' facility here defending or helping to defend the peace throughout the world.
Let me add, you elect Louis and he will have an opportunity to continue that strong support for this great navy installation which is such an integral part of our national security forces.
I don't have to tell all of you in New Hampshire that Louis, by actions, by words, is working hard to keep control of government at the local level. He knows and I know that we cannot run the city of Portsmouth nearly as well from Washington as your elected officials can do it right here in Portsmouth.
So, if you want local control with locally elected officials and the backup given to Lou that is necessary, then you ought to elect Louis Wyman on next Tuesday.
I would like to conclude a wonderful day, and it started early and it is ending late, but it has been an inspiration to me to meet so many old friends, to make so many new acquaintances.
Fortunately, a long time ago I used to come to New Hampshire then to vacation and ski, and I met some wonderful people who have been my friends over the years, and the characteristics of those people I have found in my opportunity to see others in New Hampshire today are independence, dedicated, with great conviction.
You have the kind of characteristics which I think are reflected in Louis Wyman. If you want an independent guy, a man of dedication with deep convictions, I urge you to make that extra step to get to the polls on Tuesday.
One final word: All of you have close friends who you would stand up for, who you would urge to be appointed or elected. Louis Wyman is that kind of a friend of mine. I am here spending this wonderful day because I want to go the last mile supporting a person who I respected as a legislator, who I admire as a person, who I know will do the job best for the State of New Hampshire, and I know will help me the most as we face the critical, crucial problems of energy, the economy, jobs, inflation, and all the other things.
Louis, I want to urge you to make the maximum effort, and I want your literal thousands of friends here in New Hampshire to join in supporting me in supporting you. Good luck.
Thank you very, very much.
  