
    Americans Need Real Change, Not More Empty Political Rhetoric
"Hillary Clinton fundamentally doesn't trust the private sector. Of course not – she's never worked in the private sector, except to sue people. So when she sees a problem in the marketplace, she naturally thinks more government and higher taxes are the solution." – Gov. Mitt Romney (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
CHANGE IN WASHINGTON VS. POLITICS AS USUAL
Gov. Romney Says "Change Begins With Us," While Sen. Clinton Represents The Status Quo:
Gov. Romney Believes That "Washington Is Failing Us." GOV. ROMNEY: "The people of this great nation have always taken a hand in shaping our own destiny. I believe the American people will rise to the occasion once again, as we have always done before. But at this critical time in our nation's history, Washington is failing us." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
Sen. Hillary Clinton (D-NY) Claims To Be An Agent Of Change Despite Spending Decades In Washington. '"I know some people think you have to choose between change and experience,' the senator from New York said at an afternoon rally on the grounds of the state capitol in Concord. 'Well, with me, you don't have to choose. I have spent my whole life fighting for change.'" (Dan Balz, "Clinton Bills Herself As Agent Of Change, Voice Of Experience," The Washington Post, 9/3/07)
Gov. Romney: "It's Time For Change In Washington And Change Begins With Us." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
CHANGE: LOWER TAXES, NOT TAX AND SPEND
Gov. Romney Supports Lowering Taxes To Foster Economic Growth, While Sen. Clinton Wants Higher Taxes:
Gov. Romney Will Strengthen The American Economy By Lowering Taxes. GOV. ROMNEY: "We will also strengthen our economy with lower taxes and energy security." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07
- Gov. Romney Believes In Fiscal Responsibility, And Will Reign In Excessive Spending In Washington. GOV. ROMNEY: "Republicans for Change are also fiscally responsible. We refuse to charge our children and grandchildren for our excessive spending — If I am elected President, I will cap non-military discretionary spending at inflation less one percent. If I get appropriations above that amount, I will veto them. And I like vetoes. I've vetoed hundreds of items already. Let's put some fresh ink in the Presidential veto pen!" (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
Sen. Clinton Will Increase Taxes By Rolling Back The Bush Tax Cuts To Pay For Her Universal Healthcare Plan. "The plan offers tens of millions of Americans a new tax credit to make premiums affordable-which more than offsets the increased revenues from the Plan's provisions to limit the employer tax exclusion for health care and discontinue portions of the Bush tax cuts for those making over $250,000." (Hillary For President, "The American Health Choices Plan," Press Release, 9/17/07)
And Sen. Clinton Also Won't Rule Out Raising Taxes To Fix Social Security. "The other option that Senator Clinton has not ruled out is to raise taxes to pay for a Social Security bailout plan. This would eventually require raising the payroll tax to 18% or 20% from today's 15% to pay benefits to tomorrow's retirees. To taxpayers, that option isn't 'affordable or sustainable.' It would be a serious job killer." (Stephen Moore, "Hillary's Entitlement Bailout Tax?" WSJ Opinion Journal, 9/7/07)
Gov. Romney: "It's Time For Change In Washington And Change Begins With Us." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
CHANGE: SMALLER GOVERNMENT, NOT MORE BUREAUCRACY
Gov. Romney Supports Less Government And Market-Based Reforms, While Sen. Clinton Believes In Big European-Style Government:
Gov. Romney Believes That Less Government Regulation And An Increased Emphasis On Individual Responsibility Will Enhance Our Economy. GOV. ROMNEY: "The right answer is less government, less regulation, more individual responsibility, and more of the market dynamics that propel the rest of our economy." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
- Gov. Romney: "Republicans For Change Believe In Small Government." GOV. ROMNEY: "Republicans for Change believe in small government. Governments should be restrained so that the freedoms and vitality of individuals and enterprises can be unleashed. Compared to free markets and free enterprises, government is slow to act, wasteful, duplicative, bureaucratic, inefficient, ineffective, and unresponsive." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
But Sen. Hillary Clinton Supports A Big-Government Takeover Of Health Care. "Strengthen Medicaid and CHIP: The Plan will fix the holes in the safety net to ensure that the most vulnerable populations receive affordable, quality care." (Hillary For President, "The American Health Choices Plan," Press Release, 9/17/07)
- Sen. Clinton: "And I Intend To Be The Health Care President. You See A Lot Of People With Those Stickers That Say, 'I'm A Health Care Voter.' Well, I Want To Be The Health Care President." (MSNBC, Democrat Presidential Debate, Hanover, NH, 9/26/07)
Sen. Clinton Believes In A "Shared Responsibility" To Improve Our Health Care System. SEN. CLINTON: "Well, there is certainly a shared responsibility that goes with having a healthcare system that both can afford to provide quality affordable healthcare for everyone and puts responsibility on everyone in our country." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 9/23/07)
Gov. Romney: "It's Time For Change In Washington And Change Begins With Us." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
CHANGE: SUPPORT OUR TROOPS, NOT CUT-AND-RUN
Gov. Romney Continues A Surge Of Support, While Sen. Clinton Cuts And Runs From Supporting Our Troops:
Gov. Romney Will Strengthen Our Military And Ensure That Our Troops And Veterans Have The Supplies They Deserve. GOV. ROMNEY: "Republicans for Change believe in strength. We know that the best foe against tyrants and the best ally peace has ever known is a strong America. We will strengthen the military with more troops, better armament, and better care for our veterans." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
- Gov. Romney Continues To Encourage Americans To Show Their Support For Our Troops In Any Way They Can. GOV. ROMNEY: "A father's concern about U.S. support for the military surge in Iraq has prompted Republican Mitt Romney to both make a $25,000 donation to a variety of military support agencies and urge Americans to engage in a similar display of patriotism. The money will be divided between USO Care Packages, the Fisher House, A Soldiers Wish List, Packages from Home, Operation Thank You, Operation Shoebox and America Supports You. Links to each site have been placed on Romney's presidential campaign Web site, www.mittromney.com." (Glen Johnson, "Romney Donates $25,000 Amid Plea For Patriotic 'Surge'," The Associated Press, 8/2/07)
Sen. Clinton Opposes Funding For The Troops. SEN. CLINTON: "I will not vote for any funding that does not move us toward beginning to withdraw our troops, it's really the only way that I can register my very strong disapproval of this policy, and I will continue to do so." (Fox's "Fox News Sunday," 9/23/07)
- In May, Sen. Clinton Voted Against The Iraq Emergency Spending Bill, Which Provided Funding For The Troops. (H.R. 2206, CQ Vote #181: Passed 80-14: R 42-3; D 37-10; I 1-1, 5/24/07, Clinton Voted Nay)
Sen. Clinton Brags About Democrats' Efforts To Cut And Run From Iraq. CLINTON: "You know, with respect to the question, though, about the Democrats taking control of the Congress, I think the Democrats have pushed extremely hard to change this president's course in Iraq." (MSNBC, Democrat Presidential Debate, Hanover, NH, 9/26/07)
- Sen. Clinton: "I Will Immediately Move To Begin Bringing Our Troops Home When I Am Inaugurated." (MSNBC, Democrat Presidential Debate, Hanover, NH, 9/26/07)
Sen. Clinton Also Voted Against The Senate Resolution Condemning MoveOn.org's Attacks Against Gen. Petraeus. "Cornyn, R-Texas, amendment no. 2934 to the Levin, D-Mich., substitute amendment no. 2011. The Cornyn amendment would express the sense of the Senate to reaffirm support for Gen. David H. Petraeus, the U.S. commander in Iraq; strongly condemn personal attacks on the honor and integrity of Petraeus and members of the U.S. armed forces; and repudiate an advertisement by MoveOn.org about Petraeus." (HR 1585, CQ Vote #344, Adopted 72-25: R 49-0; D 22-24; I 1-1, 9/20/07, Clinton Voted Nay)
- Sen. Clinton Attacked Gen. Petraeus' Credibility During A Hearing Earlier This Month. CLINTON: "[I] think that the reports that you provide to us really require the willing suspension of disbelief." (Committee On The Armed Services, U.S. Senate, Hearing, 9/11/07)
Gov. Romney: "It's Time For Change In Washington And Change Begins With Us." (Gov. Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference, Mackinac, MI, 9/22/07)
  