
    ARLINGTON, VA -- U.S. Senator Arlen Specter (R-PA) today issued the following statement on Barack Obama's misleading new radio ad on stem cell research, which is airing in the Philadelphia suburbs:
"The fact is John McCain has been a champion for stem cell research, which holds the promise of curing devastating diseases like cancer, diabetes and heart disease. John McCain bucked the majority of our party in standing strong with me in urging the Bush Administration to lift restrictions on stem cell research, and last year voted to overturn the Bush policy.
"Delaware Valley voters deserve the truth: On stem cell research and so many other issues, John McCain is a maverick who always puts his country first. As president, he'll advance the cause of potentially lifesaving medical research that can free families from the fear and devastation of illness." 
FACT CHECK: OBAMA RADIO AD FALSELY ALLEGES THAT MCCAIN DOES NOT SUPPORT STEM CELL RESEARCH, WHEN HE CLEARLY DOES 
Misleading Obama Radio Ad Alleges That John McCain Does Not Support Stem Cell Research
 Read Script Of Radio Ad 
John McCain Has Strongly Supported Stem Cell Research, Voting Against Majority Of His Own Party  
McCain: "Mr. President, stem cell research has the potential to give us a better understanding of deadly diseases and spinal cord injuries affecting millions of Americans." (Office Of Sen. John McCain, Statement By John McCain On Stem Cell Research, 4/11/07) 
McCain: "I believe that we need to fund this. This is a tough issue for those of us in the pro-life community. I would remind you that these stem cells are either going to be discarded or perpetually frozen. We need to do what we can to relieve human suffering. It's a tough issue. I support federal funding." (John McCain, Democratic Debate, Simi Valley, CA, 5/3/07) 
John McCain Twice Voted To Expand Federal Funding For Stem Cell Research. (S. 5, Senate Vote #127: Passed 63-34: R 17-32; D 44-2, 4/11/07, McCain Voted Yea; H.R. 810, Senate Vote #206: Passed 63-37: R: 19-36; D 42-1, 7/18/06, McCain Voted Yea) 
In April 2007, John McCain Voted "To Reject Restrictions President Bush Has Placed On" Stem Cell Research. (S. 5, Senate Vote #127: Passed 63-34: R 17-32; D 44-2, 4/11/07; Nicole Gaouette, "Senate Strongly Rejects Bush's Curbs On Stem-Cell Research," Los Angeles Times , 4/12/07) 
In 2004, McCain Signed Letter With 58 Other Senators To President Bush Urging Him To Ease Restrictions On Embryonic Stem Cell Research. "We write to urge you to expand the current federal policy concerning embryonic stem cell research. As you know, embryonic stem cells have the potential to be used to treat and better understand deadly and disabling diseases and conditions that affect more than 100 million Americans, such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury, and many others. ... Mr. President, we know that you have been a strong supporter of medical research and share our commitment to curing disease and alleviating human suffering. We would very much like to work with you to modify the current embryonic stem cell policy so that it provides this area of research the greatest opportunity to lead to the treatments and cures for which we are all hoping." (Letter From 58 Senators To President Bush To Ease Restrictions On Embryonic Stem Cell Research, 6/4/08 )
  