
    Presidential Determination No. 87-20
Memorandum for the Secretary of Commerce
Pursuant to Section 6(m) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (50 U.S.C. App. 2405(m)) (the "Act"), I hereby determine and certify that:
a) The Iran/Iraq war, together with Iran's intransigent attitude against peaceful resolution of that conflict and Iran's ongoing support of acts of international terrorism, have resulted in a breach of peace posing a serious and direct threat to the strategic interests of the United States. Hostile Iranian policies and actions directed against vessels of neutral nations in the Persian Gulf have heightened the seriousness of that threat;
b) Iran has purchased a large shipment of U.S.-origin SCUBA gear in the United States;
c) Available information indicates that this type of equipment will be diverted to military use by Iran in attacks on oil rigs and possibly shipping or in support of other terrorist or military actions;
d) Prohibition of such shipments of equipment will be instrumental in remedying the direct threat posed by the use of this equipment against U.S. interests in the region and in our effort to persuade other potential sources of similar equipment to likewise prohibit its transfer to Iran; and
e) This export control shall remain in effect only so long as Iranian hostile actions and policy continue to pose a direct threat to U.S. strategic interests in the region.
You are hereby authorized and directed to report to Congress this determination and the report required under Section 6(f) of the Act. Based on the above determination, I am exercising my power under section 6(m) of the Act to extend foreign policy controls to cover exports or reexports of SCUBA gear to Iran that are either in performance of a contract or agreement entered into prior to the date of the report of the Secretary of Commerce of his intent to impose such control or that are under a validated license or other authorization issued under the Act.
This determination shall be published in the Federal Register.
RONALD REAGAN
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 23, 1987.
  