
    Pool Reports by Courtney Rozen, Bloomberg Government 



Sent:
Reports:




September 30, 202207:58

In-Town Pool Report #1
Good morning. The White House press office passes along the below statement:
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan at today's press briefing.



September 30, 202209:12

In-Town Pool Report #2
Pool is gathering for President Biden's trip to the Supreme Court.



September 30, 202209:56

In-Town Pool Report #3
The president walked out of the White House and into his car at 9:54 a.m.
The motorcade departed the White House South Lawn at 9:55 a.m. for the Supreme Court. The president is attending an investiture ceremony for Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.
Pool was already in the vans when president entered his car, so no questions. There were a few staff members, including the White House counsel, standing outside the South Lawn portico when pool walked by to enter the vans.
As a heads up, pooler will not be able to provide quick reports once we get to the Supreme Court. Only pens and notebooks are allowed inside. No electronics. Your pooler will take detailed notes and send them once we leave the court.
It is a cloudy and chilly day.



September 30, 202209:58

9/30 In-Town Pool Report #3a
From the White House press office, here is list of people traveling to the Supreme Court with the president:

Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Julie Rodriguez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President and Press Secretary
Stuart Delery, Assistant to the President and White House Counsel
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Cara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms Control
Reema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate Liaison
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Paige Herwig, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Counsel to the President
Tona Boyd, Special Assistant to the President & Special Counsel to the President
Jordan Montoya, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the First Lady
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director




September 30, 202210:43

In-Town Pool Report #4
The motorcade departed the Supreme Court at 10:34 a.m. It arrived at the White House at 10:40. Pooler saw POTUS exit his car and walk toward the Oval Office at 10:41 a.m.
Initial notes on SCOTUS visit:
After departing the White House, the motorcade drove down Pennsylvania Ave. Motorcade passed Labor Department and Canadian Embassy.
Motorcade arrived at 10 a.m. Pooler did not see the president exit his car. Pool entered the building from a different entrance than the one facing the Capitol.
Pool was seated in the court behind a few walls and curtains. It was difficult to see. Room was full of people, some masked and some not.
Pooler, with help from other reporters in pool, spotted Paul Ryan, Merrick Garland, Vanita Gupta, and Lisa Monaco in room.
A bell rang at 10:17 a.m. Chief Justice John Roberts announced the arrival of the justices. He said he was "pleased" to have the president, vice president, and Speaker Pelosi at the ceremony. He also recognized retired Justices Kennedy and Breyer and said "welcome back."
More notes to come.



September 30, 202210:55

In-Town Pool Report #4a
Pooler notes
Chief Justice John Roberts then recognized Attorney General Garland. Garland said he had the commission, signed by both him and President Biden. The clerk read the commission aloud.
Justice Brown Jackson was then escorted to the bench and shook the chief justice's hand. The other justices stood. The chief justice administered an oath. There was no applause after the oath.
The chief justice said: "It is my pleasure to extend you a very warm welcome."
The chief justice then said the court is adjourned until this coming Monday at 10 a.m.
The pool held in the court room for a few moments while the president and vice president left. Pool was then escorted out and loaded into vans.
From the White House press office
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at the Supreme Court of the United States:

Jeff Minear, Senior Counselor to Chief Justice John Roberts, Jr.

Joining the President and the First Lady for the guest book signing:

Chief Justice John Roberts, Jr. U.S. Supreme Court
Jeff Minear, Senior Counselor to Chief Justice John Roberts

Joining the President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and Second Gentleman for a greet in the Chief Justice's Conference Room:

Chief Justice John Roberts, Jr. U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Elena Kagan, U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Clarence Thomas, U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Amy Coney Barrett, U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Neil Gorsuch, U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Sonia Sotomayor, U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Samuel Alito, U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Brett Kavanaugh, U.S. Supreme Court
Retired Justice Stephen Breyer, U.S. Supreme Court
Retired Justice Anthony Kennedy, U.S. Supreme Court
Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson, U.S. Supreme Court
Jeff Minear, Senior Counselor to Chief Justice John Roberts
Paige Herwig, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Counsel to the President
Patrick Jackson, husband of Justice Jackson
Leila Jackson, daughter of Justice Jackson
Talia Jackson, daughter of Justice Jackson

The President, the First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman attended the Investiture of Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.
Notable Attendees: 

Chief Justice John Roberts, Jr.
Justice Clarence Thomas
Justice Samuel Alito
Justice Sonia Sotomayor
Justice Elena Kagan
Justice Neil Gorsuch
Justice Brett Kavanaugh
Justice Amy Coney Barrett
Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson
Justice Stephen Breyer (retired)
Justice Anthony Kennedy (retired)
Merrick Garland, Attorney General of the United States
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff
Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (RI)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator Cory Booker (NJ)
Senator Ben Sasse (NE)
Representative Jerry Nadler (NY-10)
Representative Hank Johnson (GA-04)
Representative Darrell Issa (CA-50)
Representative Mike Quigley (IL-05)
Julie Rodriguez, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs
Stuart Delery, Assistant to the President and White House Counsel
Louisa Terrell, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Elizabeth Prelogar, Solicitor General of the United States
Senator Doug Jones (AL)
Reema Dodin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs & Senate Liaison
Paige Herwig, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Counsel to the President
Tona Boyd, Special Assistant to the President & Special Counsel to the President
Dana Remus, Former White House Counsel
Minyon Moore, Former Advisor for Supreme Court Nominations




September 30, 202210:58

In-Town Pool Report #5
The next event of the day is President Biden's remarks in the Roosevelt Room on the federal response to Hurricane Ian.
The TV pool was called to gather for preset at 10:47 a.m. Will alert when rest of pool is called to gather.



September 30, 202211:27

In-Town Pool Report #5a
Pool is gathering for president's speech on Hurricane Ian as of 11:25 a.m.



September 30, 202211:42

In-Town Pool Report #6
Change of plans. President Biden will attend Rosh Hashanah event first and then speak on Hurricane Ian. Unclear if we are going to one right after the other, will update when pool knows more.



September 30, 202211:52

In-Town Pool Report #7
Pool is in the Roosevelt Room. Lots of people standing around. There are two screens that say Shana Tova. Pooler spotted Admiral Rachel Levine of the Department of Health and Human Services. Also Rep. Ted Deutch.
Pool and attendees are waiting for the president. Unfortunately pooler doesn't spot any delicious food that typically is served for Rosh Hashanah, will advise if that changes.



September 30, 202212:10

In-Town Pool Report #8
President Biden, First Lady Jill Biden, Vice President Kamala Harris, and Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff walked into the East Room at 12:06 p.m.
From the White House press office (pooler hasn't confirmed everyone on this list are in the room):
Notable Attendees:

Merrick Garland, Attorney General of the United States
Alejandro Mayorkas, Secretary of Homeland Security
Avril Haines, Director of National Intelligence
Representative Jake Auchincloss (MA-04)
Representative Suzanne Bonamici (OR-01)
Representative David Cicilline (RI-01)
Representative Ted Deutch (FL-22)
Representative Lois Frankel (FL-21)
Representative Sara Jacobs (CA-53)
Representative Andy Levin (MI-09)
Representative Alan Lowenthal (CA-47)
Representative Kathy Manning (NC-06)
Representative Jerrold Nadler (NY-10)
Representative Dean Phillips (MN-03)
Representative Jamie Raskin (MD-08)
Representative Jan Schakowsky (IL-09)
Representative Brad Schneider (IL-10)
Representative Kimberly Schrier (WA-08)
Representative Elissa Slotkin (MI-08)
Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz (FL-23)
Representative Susan Wild ()
Representative John Yarmuth (KY-03)
Ambassador Deborah Lipstadt, Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism
Admiral Rachel Levin, Assistant Secretary for Health for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
U.S. Ambassador to Argentina Marc Stanley
Israeli Ambassador to the U.S. Michael Herzog




September 30, 202212:35

In-Town Pool Report #9
The president invited the attendees to join him for a special performance by a violinist (pooler couldn't hear name). He then wrapped up his remarks at 12:27 p.m. A journalist shouted a question about Ukraine, the president said he would talk about it later. The president left the East Room.
Press office says pool will gather for hurricane remarks at 1:15 p.m.



September 30, 202212:32

In-Town Pool Report #9a
The violinist is Itzhak Perlman



September 30, 202213:21

In-Town Pool Report #10
Pool is gathering for president's remarks on Hurricane Ian as of 1:19 p.m.



September 30, 202213:43

In-Town Pool Report #11
Two-minute warning to Biden's Hurricane remarks called at 1:42 p.m.



September 30, 202214:11

In-Town Pool Report #12
You saw it live.
President Biden took no questions from journalists at the end of his speech on Hurricane Ian. The speech also included a statement on Vladimir Putin of Russia. He left the Roosevelt Room at 1:58 p.m.
Next event of the day is Karine Jean-Pierre's press briefing. It is scheduled for 2:45 p.m., no word on if it will be delayed.
Also passing along below message from White House press office:
On a call with more than 1,200 Rabbis and clergy members from across the nation, President Biden commemorated the Jewish High Holidays and reaffirmed his longstanding commitment to, and leadership on, issues of importance to the American Jewish community. He expressed his deep gratitude to the Rabbis and clergy members for their leadership and service.



September 30, 202214:48

In-Town Pool Report #13
Press briefing pushed to 3 p.m.



September 30, 202215:02

In-Town Pool Report #14
Two-minute warning to Karine's briefing called at 2:58 p.m.



September 30, 202216:03

In-Town Pool Report #15
After the briefing wrapped, the press pool quickly gathered and is now in the East Room for the president's celebration of Hispanic Heritage Month. The room is arranged the same way as this morning's High Holidays event with a change in the signage on the screens.



September 30, 202216:10

In-Town Pool Report #16
President Biden entered the East Room at 4:09 p.m.
Notes to come. Event is being streamed live on White House website.



September 30, 202216:18

In-Town Pool Report #16a
See below from the White House press office for guest list at Hispanic Heritage Month event.
In attendance:

Administrator Isabel Guzman, Small Business Administration
Representative Pete Aguilar (CA-31)
Representative Nanette Barragán, (CA-44)
Representative Salud Carbajal (CA-24)
Representative Tony Cárdenas (CA-29)
Representative Joaquin Castro (TX-20)
Representative Jim Clyburn (SC-06)
Representative Jim Costa (CA-16)
Representative Chuy García (IL-04)
Representative Lucille Roybal-Allard (CA-40)
Representative Raul Ruiz (CA-36)
Representative Linda Sánchez (CA-38)
Cindy Marten, Deputy Secretary, Department of Education
Adrianne Todman, Deputy Secretary, Department of Housing
Christopher Tenorio, Deputy Assistant Attorney General for Immigration, Department of Justice
Melody Gonzales, Executive Director, White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence and Economic Opportunity for Hispanics
Mayor Martha Guerrero, West Sacramento, CA
Mayor Juan Mendez, Brownsville, TX
Mayor Heber Marquez, Maywood, CA
Melissa Hurtado, State Senator, CA
Alfonso Lopez, State Senator, VA
Carol Alvarado, State Senator, TX
Michael Brooks, State Senator, Latino Caucus Chair, OK
Cristina Castro, State Senator, Co-Chair of Latino Caucus, IL
Jessica Gonzales Rojas, Assemblymember, Chair of Hispanic Caucus, NY
Alma Hernandez, State Representative, AZ
Mia Bonta, State Assemblymember, CA
Chynah Tyler, State Representative, Black and Latino Caucus Chair, MA
Fabian Donate, State Representative, NV
Aidee Nieves, City Council President, Bridgeport, CT
David Luna, City Councilmember, Mesa, AZ
Kenneth Romero, President, National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators




September 30, 202216:31

In-Town Pool Report #17
Biden's speech at the Hispanic Heritage Month celebration ended at 4:26 p.m. Pooler couldn't see him exit the East Room.



September 30, 202216:59

In-Town Pool Report #18
Lid called at 4:59 p.m.
Have a great weekend.




  