
    Clinton, Obama, and Edwards would leave behind tens of thousands of troops; Richardson would leave zero
SANTA FE, NM-- New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson today reiterated that he is the only major Presidential candidate who would pull all American troops out of Iraq and leave behind no residual forces, thereby actually ending the war.
"Senator Clinton has said that there still will be troops in Iraq at the end of her second term," Richardson said. "Senators Obama and Edwards will leave tens of thousands of non-combat troops in Iraq without protection and for an unspecified period of time. My position is simple: get all of our troops out. Clinton, Obama, and Edwards all would leave tens of thousands of troops in Iraq indefinitely. I would get all of our troops out in a matter of months, not years."
At Wednesday's Democratic Presidential debate at Dartmouth University in Hanover, New Hampshire, Iraq dominated the conversation. Moderator Tim Russert asked the candidates if they would commit to pulling out all of our troops by 2013. Clinton, Obama, and Edwards all refused to do so.
"This war already has gone on for too long-- four and a half years," Richardson said. "Clinton, Obama, and Edwards all are willing to extend the Iraq war for another five years. It is absurd. If Congress does not end this war now, the next President must do so. I will."
Also on Wednesday, Governor Richardson began airing an ad in New Hampshire that emphasizes his Iraq plan and its fundamental difference with the plans of the other major candidates. He also released a four-minute video on Monday detailing the Richardson plan for Iraq. Richardson will reinforce the message of the ad and video in a major policy address on Iraq and Defense Modernization on Thursday, October 4th at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C.
"We cannot end this war if any of our troops are still in Iraq," Richardson said. "We cannot begin the hard work of diplomacy until all of our troops are out of Iraq. The other candidates may have their paid experts. I am an expert. As America's Ambassador to the United Nations, I spent eighty percent of my time on the Middle East. I negotiated with Saddam Hussein and returned home with American hostages. What I know is this: we have to get all of our troops out of Iraq and leave no residual forces behind."
Join Bill Richardson's campaign to end the Iraq War. Go to: http://www.getourtroopsout.com/
To watch Governor Richardson's video "The Choice on Iraq," click here.
To watch Governor Richardson's new ad "Long Enough," click here.
  