
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today unveiled its Connecticut regional chairs. Also joining Team Rudy are eleven current and former Connecticut legislators.
The regional chairs, who will head up the Mayor's campaign in their respective Congressional Districts, are Republican State Central Committeeman Ralph Capenera, State Senator John Kissel, State Representative Ray Kalinowski, Middletown Mayor Sebastian Giuliano, East Haven Mayor Joseph Maturo, State Senator Dan Debicella, and New Britain Mayor Timothy Stewart.
"We are excited to have a fully organized campaign team in Connecticut for Mayor Giuliani," said Senate Minority Leader John McKinney, Giuliani's State Campaign Chairman. "The caliber of respected Republicans eager to work on behalf of the Mayor in our state shows that he is clearly Connecticut's choice to be our next President."
House Republican Leader Lawrence F. Cafero Jr., also Chairman of the Mayor's Connecticut campaign, added, "Connecticut voters know of the executive leadership experience and the record of real results Rudy Giuliani got as Mayor of our neighbor New York City. We know he is the most experienced candidate who will get the same real results as President of the United States."
These individuals join McKinney and Cafero, as well as House Assistant Republican Leader Dave Labriola and State Representative Penny Bacchiochi, Giuliani's State Campaign Co-Chairs.
About Rudy's Connecticut Regional Chairs:
Ralph Capenera, 1st Congressional District Regional Chair: Capenera is a businessman currently serving his second term on the Republican State Central Committee. He is also host of the cable-access television program "Ralph Talk." He lives in Rocky Hill.
Senator John Kissel, 2nd Congressional District Regional Chair: State Senator Kissel represents the 7th Senatorial District and serves on the Judiciary, Human Services, Program Review and Investigations, and Commerce Committees. He lives in Enfield.
Representative Ray Kalinowski, 2nd Congressional District Regional Chair: Kalinowski represents the 100th Legislative District, serves on the Public Safety and Security Committee, Environment Committee, is a ranking member of the Select Committee on Veteran's Affairs, and is a former selectman of Durham.
Mayor Sebastian Giuliano, 3rd Congressional District Regional Chair: "Seb" Giuliano was born, raised and has spent his adult life dedicated to Middletown.
Mayor Joe Maturo, 3rd Congressional District Regional Chair:
A life-long resident of East Haven, Maturo is formerly a firefighter with the East Haven Fire Department where he was awarded three Medals of Merit. He is a master electrician and former substitute teacher who served on the East Haven Town Council from 1993 to 1995.
Arthur DeSorbo, 3rd Congressional District Regional Co-Chair:
DeSorbo is Director of Administration and Management for the Town of East Haven.
Senator Dan Debicella, 4th Congressional District Regional Chair:
Debicella, the State Senator from the 21st District, has been a resident of Shelton for over 20 years. He currently serves on the Appropriations Committee, Environment Committee, and serves as the ranking member on the Commerce and Higher Education committees.
Mayor Timothy T. Stewart, 5th Congressional District Regional Chair: Tim Stewart was born and raised in New Britain. He served as a New Britain firefighter and then Fire Inspector, as well as the Vice President of New Britain Firefighters Union, Local 992. He is currently in his second term as the first Republican mayor to be re-elected in New Britain in 36 years.
Additional Connecticut Legislators: Senator Leonard Fasano, 34th District
Senator Judith Freedman, 26th District
Representative Alfred Adinolfi, 103rd District
Representative Toni Boucher, 143rd District
Representative Vincent Candelora, 86th District
Representative Anthony D'Amelio, 71st District
Representative John Hetherington, 125th District
Representative DebraLee Hovey, 112th District
Representative Julia Wasserman, 106th District
Former Representative Brian Flaherty
Former Representative Chris DePino
Previously Announced Connecticut Legislators:
Senator Dan Debicella
Senator John Kissel
Senator John McKinney
Representative Penny Bacchiochi
Representative Lawrence F. Cafero, Jr.
Representative Ray Kalinowski
Representative Dave Labriola
  