
    [ Released September 27, 1945. Dated September 26, 1945 ]
Honorable Thomas E. Dewey
The Governor of the State of New York
Albany, New York
This is to acknowledge receipt of your telegram of September nineteenth with reference to the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Seaway and Power Projects.
I am sure that you are aware of the fact that I have been and still am in favor of constructing both the Seaway and the Power projects; and was happy and proud to vote for them on December 12, 1944 when I was Vice President-elect but still a member of the United States Senate.
I continue to be enthusiastically in favor not only of the development of the St. Lawrence Waterway but also of the water power on the river. I also continue to believe very strongly that the necessary power facilities should be built by the Federal Government and turned over to the appropriate New York State agency in accordance with the agreement recommended by the Corps of Engineers of the United States Army and the Power Authority of the State of New York dated February 7, 1933. This was the program of President Roosevelt, and I have always been in favor of it.
A group of Senators interested in these same objectives, composed of Republicans and Democrats, have been holding meetings to discuss the best means of obtaining these results. I am informed that you have been kept fully advised about these conferences as they have progressed. The conferees have been advising with my representatives as to the best manner to bring the proposals to a successful conclusion in the Congress of the United States.
Inasmuch as it is a legislative matter, I am inclined to follow their ultimate conclusions on the best means of avoiding continued fruitless discussion and of getting some early, definite action toward accomplishing both of these objectives. It is the early construction of the project-both power and seaway--which will benefit the people of New York and the Great Lakes area, and not the form of any particular bill.
As you know, I have always been, and still am, ready to cooperate in any way I can to have the Congress of the United States ratify as soon as possible the Canadian-American agreement of March 19, 1941 for the development of the Great Lakes-St. Lawrence Basin, and also take the appropriate steps to transfer to the State of New York the ownership and management of the St. Lawrence power facilities at the International Rapids.
I am not so much interested in the details of legislative procedure; nor do I feel that it is proper for me to interfere with the sponsors of the legislation as to the legislative procedure to be followed. I am, however, most interested in the ultimate objectives which I am sure you wish to attain just as I do.
Copies of this telegram are being sent to the interested Senators and to the members of the New York State Power Authority.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
  