
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. President:)
Consistent with the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq Resolution (Public Law 102-1), and as part of my effort to keep the Congress fully informed, I am reporting on the status of efforts to obtain Iraq's compliance with the resolutions adopted by the U.N. Security Council.
Since my last report, Iraq has informed Rolf Ekeus, Chairman of the U.N. Special Commission on Iraq (UNSCOM), that it is ready to comply with U.N. Security Council Resolution 715, which requires Iraq to implement plans for long-term monitoring and verification of its weapons of mass destruction (WMD) programs, provide new data about the suppliers of its program, and accept inspections. I appreciate Chairman Ekeus' efforts to obtain Iraq's acknowledgement of its international obligation.
We must recognize, however, that important issues remain unresolved. Although Iraq accepted the immediate installation of monitoring cameras on rocket test stands, it has not permitted the cameras to be turned on. Iraq has failed to provide a complete list of critical supplies of its WMD programs and continues to delay inspection activities, for example, by refusing flight clearance for an upcoming inspection. Saddam Hussein is committed to rebuilding his WMD capability, especially nuclear weapons, and his regime has thus far shown that it will fail to act in good faith to comply with its international obligations. Our continued vigilance is necessary.
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and UNSCOM conducted four nuclear, chemical, and missile-related inspections since my last report. A chemical destruction group remains at Al Muthanna to monitor the destruction of thousands of chemical munitions, and a helicopter inspection team also remains in Iraq. Along with damage inflicted in combat, UNSCOM/IAEA inspections have effectively put the Iraqi nuclear weapons program out of business in the near-term and have substantially impaired Iraq's other WMD programs. Their efforts have contributed markedly to the stability of the region.
The "no-fly zones" over northern and southern Iraq permit the monitoring of Iraq's compliance with Security Council Resolutions 687 and 688. Over the last 2 years, the northern nofly zone has deterred Iraq from a major military offensive in the region. Since the no-fly zone was established in southern Iraq, Iraq's use of aircraft against its population in the region has stopped, as have large-scale troop movements. On July 29, two Coalition aircraft in the southern no-fly zone fired on Iraqi anti-aircraft installations after detecting target acquisition radars. On August 19, aircraft supporting Operation Provide Comfort in the northern no-fly zone were fired on by an Iraqi anti-aircraft installation. In response, Coalition aircraft fired on and hit the installation, which has not displayed hostile intentions subsequently.
The United States is working closely with the United Nations and other organizations to provide humanitarian relief to the people of northern Iraq, in the face of Iraqi government efforts to disrupt this assistance. Since early August, the Iraqi government has cut off electricity to northern Iraq, interfering with potable water supplies, impairing medical facilities, and contributing to at least 50 deaths. We are working with the United Nations to provide temporary generators and spare parts. We continue to support new U.N. efforts to mount a relief program for persons in Baghdad and the south and will ensure that the United Nations will be able to prevent the Iraqi government from diverting supplies. We are continuing to work toward the placement of human rights monitors throughout Iraq as proposed by Max van der Stoel, Special Rapporteur of the U.N. Human Rights Commission, and to work for the establishment of a United Nations Commission to investigate and publicize Iraqi war crimes and other violations of international humanitarian law.
The U.N. sanctions regime exempts medicine and, in the case of foodstuffs, requires only that the U.N. Sanctions Committee be notified of food shipments. In accordance with paragraph 20 of Resolution 687, the committee received notices of 20 million tons of foodstuffs to be shipped to Iraq through June 1993. The Sanctions Committee also continues to consider and, when appropriate, approve requests to send to Iraq materials and supplies for essential civilian needs. The Iraqi government, in contrast, has maintained a full embargo against its northern provinces and has acted to distribute humanitarian supplies only to its supporters and to the military.
The Iraqi government has so far refused to sell $1.6 billion in oil as previously authorized by the Security Council in Resolutions 706 and 712. Talks between Iraq and the United Nations on implementing these resolutions resumed briefly in July but concluded without results when the Iraqi delegation left the talks. Iraq could use proceeds from such sales to purchase foodstuffs, medicines, materials, and supplies for essential civilian needs of its population, subject to U.N. monitoring of sales and the equitable distribution of humanitarian supplies (including to its northern provinces). Iraqi authorities bear full responsibility for any suffering in Iraq that results from their refusal to implement Resolutions 706 and 712.
Proceeds from oil sales also would be used to compensate persons injured by Iraq's unlawful invasion and occupation of Kuwait. The U.N. Compensation Commission has received about 900,000 claims so far, with a total of roughly two million expected. The U.S. Government is preparing to file a sixth set of individual claims with the Commission, bringing U.S. claims filed to roughly 2,700. The Commission's efforts will facilitate the compensation of those injured by Iraq once sufficient funds become available.
Security Council Resolution 778 permits the use of a portion of frozen Iraqi oil assets to fund crucial U.N. activities concerning Iraq, including humanitarian relief, UNSCOM, and the Compensation Commission. (The funds will be repaid, with interest, from Iraqi oil revenues as soon as Iraqi oil exports resume.) The United States is prepared to transfer up to $200 million in frozen Iraqi oil assets held in U.S. financial institutions, provided that U.S. contributions do not exceed 50 percent of the total amount contributed. We have arranged a total of over $100 million in such matching contributions thus far.
Iraq still has not met its obligations concerning Kuwaitis and third-country nationals it detained during the war. Iraq has taken no substantive steps to cooperate fully with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), as required by Security Council Resolution 687, although it has received over 600 files on missing individuals. Iraq refused to participate in a July 29 meeting under the auspices of the ICRC to consider further steps with regard to these missing persons. We continue to work for Iraqi compliance.
Iraq can rejoin the community of civilized nations only through democratic processes, respect for human rights, equal treatment of its people, and adherence to basic norms of international behavior. A government representing all the people of Iraq, which is committed to the territorial integrity and unity of Iraq, would be a stabilizing force in the Gulf region. The Iraqi National Congress (INC) espouses these goals. In August, Iraq's ambassadors to Tunisia and Canada fled to Britain and announced their support for the INC.
I am grateful for the support by the Congress of our efforts.
Sincerely,
BILL CLINTON
  