
    By the President of the United States of AmericaA Proclamation
Many Americans are enjoying life today because at a time of crisis they received fast, professional assistance from emergency medial services (EMX) teams. The success of these teams is due to the people -- physicians, nurses, paramedics, park rangers, fire fighters, police officers, and communications personnel -- who work together to care for the injured and critically ill.
For some, working on an EMS team is a full-time career, while thousands of others work as volunteers. Whether full-time workers or volunteers, these men and women are highly trained professionals. They often perform their duties under difficult and even hazardous conditions. Many risk their lives to rescue accident victims. All of these people make emergency medical services a national success.
Despite this success, however, more than three-quarters of a million Americans a year still lose their lives as the result of medical emergenices. Emergency medical services teams across the country are working to improve this record. They are seeking to establish nationwide standards for training and delivery of care, to upgrade the skills of those already in service, and to devise new emergency techniques and equipment. In addition to these efforts, they are working to teach the general public what to do when confronted with a medical emergency.
We need to make our citizens aware of ways to prevent dangerous situations that can lead to serious injury. Americans also should learn specific actions they can take to reduce the severity of injuries and to help save lives.
It is appropriate that as a Nation we recognize and encourage our local emergency medical services teams in their efforts to improve emergency care services, and to improve our own ability to respond effectively in emergency situations. These efforts can only lead to a safer America.
To enhance public awareness of the important public service emergency medical services teams perform, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 133, has designated the week beginning September 17, 1989, as "Emergency Medical Services Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
NOW, THERFORE, I, GEORGE BUSH, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 17 through September 23, 1989, as Emergency Medical Services Week. I call upon all Americans to observe the week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourteenth.
GEORGE BUSH
  