
    US citizens living abroad may be distant, but they are not disengaged. In fact, as unofficial American Ambassadors, they play a vital role in the life of the nation. Not only do Americans abroad vote and pay taxes, they are often the first contact other nationalities have with our country and you experience firsthand the impact that our government's policies have overseas. No matter where Americans may find themselves, John McCain cares about their welfare, hopes and fears. As President, John McCain will work hard to improve the United States' image in the world. But image is not everything. Above all, John McCain is committed to protecting the lives and livelihoods of all Americans and defending their personal freedoms. Through reform he will tackle the severe US trade deficit and strengthen the dollar, while providing a more inclusive, peaceful and prosperous future for all Americans. 
The Role of Foreign Policy for Americans Abroad
As an American abroad, you know the significance of having a strong and informed foreign policy. The United States will benefit from stronger alliances, and together we will prevail against radical Islamic extremism, stand together in Afghanistan and work together in NATO. A strong European Union, a strong NATO and a true strategic partnership between them is profoundly in our interest. As President, John McCain will renew and revitalize our democratic alliances, while using diplomacy to promote the nation's interests in international affairs. John McCain will work with the more than 100 democratic nations around the world to advance our values and defend our shared interests. At the heart of these alliances, John McCain believes there must be mutual respect and trust. The United States must listen to the views and respect the collective will of our democratic allies. When we believe that international act ion is necessary, whether military, economic or diplomatic, we will try to persuade our friends that we are right. But we, in return, must also be willing to be persuaded by them.
Through revitalized alliances, John McCain will strive to strengthen democracy around the globe. When necessary, the United States will defend its friends against external aggression and bullying. The recent events in Georgia remind us all that the world remains a dangerous place, and John McCain is a leader who is prepared to protect our national security. In winning the war in Iraq, John McCain will bring our troops home with victory and honor, while remaining ever vigilant against threats around the world. Foreign assistance will also be an important element of his foreign policy. Economic development in key countries around the world is a long term investment in American national security, intended to build the political and economic foundations of peace and stability. In doing so, America takes the route of responsible statesmanship. Even as the United States increases its military capabilities, John McCain will increase our civilian capacity so that an undue burden d oes not again fall on our soldiers as it has in Afghanistan and Iraq, where civilian agencies of our government have too often been missing in action. As President, John McCain would be committed to bolstering peaceful development in order to reduce the chances of war breaking out in the first place.
As President, John McCain will respect and uphold the US Constitution and US commitments around the world. John McCain will fight the terrorists and at the same time defend the rights that are the foundations of our society. In a John McCain administration we will not torture or treat inhumanely suspected terrorists that are detained in wartime. We will close the detention facility at Guantanamo and come to a common international understanding on the disposition of dangerous detainees under our control. 
Economic Prosperity for Americans Abroad
To provide economic security, John McCain will clean-up the systemic problems of the US financial system. With today's crippling deficit, the United States' room for maneuver in all matters is severely diminished. An increasingly isolationist, anti-free trade America would further weaken our country and the US dollar. The depreciating dollar particularly affects Americans abroad because of the disadvantageous effect of exchange rates on the tax value of a fixed salary or pension.
To secure America's economic prosperity and leadership in the world, John McCain believes that globalization is an opportunity for American workers today and in the future. A John McCain Administration would have a competitive export mentality, because ninety-five percent of the world's customers lie outside our borders, and as a result, we need to be at the table when the rules for access to those markets are written. John McCain will engage in multilateral, regional and bilateral efforts to reduce barriers to trade and build effective enforcement of global trading rules. To make our country more competitive, John McCain wants to turn global markets into level playing fields for American citizens and companies everywhere. Under a John McCain presidency international investment in the United States would be encouraged to create jobs, and in turn promote prosperity, while also expanding foreign markets for American goods. These policies would tackle the US trade deficit, im prove the economic security of Americans abroad and strengthen the dollar. 
Voting From Abroad
Having spent years in military service overseas, John McCain understands the issues that affect Americans abroad. The US expatriate population is an important demographic that is too often overlooked in Washington, but a John McCain administration will address their concerns and make sure the voices of Americans abroad are heard. Despite recent legislation, absentee voting still remains a complicated and unsatisfactory procedure that in effect disenfranchises many Americans, affecting the Armed Forces and civilians alike. The rules and regulations surrounding absentee voting must be made simpler and more uniform, and should find secure means to vote electronically. John McCain will reform existing legislation to ensure all Americans have the opportunity to exercise their right to vote. 
Social Security Issues
John McCain believes that reform is needed to make US Social Security services more accessible to Americans living and working overseas. As president he would consider reforming "windfall elimination" rules, as part of any bipartisan reform to restore solvency to our social security system. 
Census
At this time, the US Census counts overseas members of the military, federal civilian employees, and their dependants, it does not include private citizens residing abroad. With an estimated 6 million Americans, discounting private citizens leaves the US Census lacking. For the purposes of the apportionment of Representatives among the states, John McCain would work with the Census Bureau to find an effective, inclusive way of counting all Americans living abroad. 
Citizenship Transmission
As President, John McCain would respond to the need to clarify the issues surrounding the transmission of citizenship. Every year, thousands of children born to American parents outside of the United States are rendered legally stateless at birth. While preserving American interests, John McCain would provide the leadership to resolve this ambiguity by reviewing the rules and regulations concerning citizenship of children born and adopted by US citizens overseas.
  