
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the endorsement of the U.S. Airport and Seaport Police, a member of the International Association of Airport and Seaport Police (IAASP).
"Mayor Giuliani's record of leadership speaks for itself, especially the remarkable resiliency he displayed in the days following September 11th as he worked side-by-side with police officers," said U.S. Airport and Seaport Police Director Jay Grant. "There is no candidate more qualified or more capable of providing the assertive and common-sense leadership our nation needs to protect our borders – whether air, land or sea – from threats abroad."
In June, IAASP presented Mayor Giuliani with the first annual Fred V. Morrone Award during the 38th annual International Port Security Conference held in Washington, D.C. The award is given in memory of Fred Morrone, the Superintendent of the New York and New Jersey Port Authority Police Department who died in the terrorist attacks of September 11th. It is awarded to individuals who have displayed outstanding leadership and contributions in helping to strengthen our nation's airport, seaport, cargo and transportation security.
"Mayor Giuliani's years of public service have demonstrated his commitment to protecting our nation at its most vulnerable points," said Grant. "He was a friend of Fred Morrone and continues to honor his legacy by making America safer and by supporting the law enforcement community throughout the nation."
"It is a great honor to accept the endorsement of the U.S. Port Police," said Mayor Giuliani. "These men and women understand the challenges we face in protecting our homeland and everyday they risk their lives for their fellow Americans. We thank them for their important work."
The US Airport and Seaport Police is part of a worldwide organization dedicated to mutual cooperation in setting the highest standards of safety, security and law enforcement for the transportation of persons and property through the world's airport and seaports.
  