
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Newport News, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Virginia families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Virginia the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
The President's Paycheck Protection Program provided over $12.5 billion worth of loans to more than 114,000 Virginia businesses and saved 1 million jobs.
Nearly 4 million Virginians received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $6.7 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing Virginia with up to $3.3 billion in assistance to deal with the outbreak and more than $814 million in relief so far to 6,271 health care providers in the state.

Virginia businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Virginia workers and businesses, and he is doing it again.
Over the last four months, Virginia added back 188,400 jobs following the economy's artificial interruptions from the China virus.
Virginia added more than 161,300 new jobs in the first three years of the Trump Administration, including more than 7,800 new manufacturing jobs.
In February, Virginia's unemployment rate was just 2.6%. During the Obama-Biden Administration, the average unemployment rate in Virginia was 5.7%
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to create 32,000 new Virginia jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 212 Virginia communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America-First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Virginia's economy: 

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Virginia's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports $4.3 billion worth of goods to Canada and Mexico each year.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports nearly 330,000 jobs in the state.
The USMCA will boost Virginia's agricultural exports, helping the state's farmers and agriculture producers.
President Trump is defending Virginia farmers and agricultural producers from China by providing more than $72 million in direct USDA payments to offset the damage of China's tariffs.

But Joe Biden's disastrous agenda will decimate Virginia's recovering economy and undo President Trump's policies that help Virginians the most:

The terrible trade deals that Joe Biden supported throughout his 44 years in office killed Virginia jobs.

Virginia lost 13,100 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA.
Virginia lost 134,700 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 66,200 Virginia jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies would devastate Virginia workers and businesses.

The oil, natural gas, and coal industries support more than 148,000 Virginia jobs and contribute more than $14 billion to the state's economy each year.


Biden's government-run health care proposal endangers the private health insurance that 4.9 million Virginians rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 10 of Virginia's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.
Meanwhile, President Trump is fighting to give Virginians the best health care in the world at lower prices. The average Obamacare premium in Virginia decreased 2.6% over the last two years.




Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. More than 1,100 students are currently enrolled in 8 charter schools in the state.

  