
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Curtis S. Chin, of New York, to be United States Director of the Asian Development Bank, with the rank of Ambassador. Mr. Chin currently serves as Managing Director at Burson-Marsteller. Earlier in his career, he served as Special Assistant to the U.S. Secretary of Commerce. He also served on the Department of State's Advisory Committee on Cultural Diplomacy. Mr. Chin received his bachelor's degree from Northwestern University and his master's degree from Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Steven R. Chealander, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board (Qualified), for the remainder of a five year term expiring December 31, 2007. Mr. Chealander currently serves as Manager of Flight Operations Efficiency at American Airlines Headquarters. Prior to this, he served as Manager of Flight Safety-Internal Evaluation Compliance at American Airlines. Earlier in his career, he served as a Colonel in the United States Air Force. Mr. Chealander received his bachelor's degree from the University of Southern California.
The President intends to designate Paul J. Hutter, of Virginia, to be Acting General Counsel of the Department of Veterans Affairs. Mr. Hutter currently serves as Assistant General Counsel of the Department of Veteran Affairs. Prior to this, he served on detail at the Department of Defense as the Chief Operations Officer of the Interagency Transition Planning Team in Iraq. Earlier in his career, he was the Assistant Regional Counsel at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Mr. Hutter received his bachelor's degree from Rice University and his master's degree from Pepperdine University. He also received his JD from the University of Santa Clara and his LLM from the Judge Advocate General's School.
The President intends to nominate Ronald Spogli, of California, to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of San Marino. Mr. Spogli currently serves as the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Italy.
The President intends to nominate Craig Stapleton, of Connecticut, to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Monaco. Mr. Stapleton currently serves as the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to France.
  