
    Pool Reports by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




September 25, 202308:25

In-town pool report #1- checking in
Good Monday morning, I'll be your pooler today.
The arrival of the Pacific Islands Forum leaders to the South Portico will be at 9:30am and open press. President Biden will not be in attendance for these arrivals.
Passing along the rest of the schedule for today--
Monday, September 25, 2023
EDT
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
9:45 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT hosts a meeting with Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) leaders for the U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum SummitEast RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 10:10 AM – Palm Room Doors)
11:40 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in a family photo with Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) leaders South PorticoOpen Press (Pre-set 8:30 AM, Gather 11:15 AM – Palm Room Doors)
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts a meeting with the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities; THE VICE PRESIDENT participatesRoosevelt RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 3:30 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
Briefing Schedule
EDT
1:30 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre



September 25, 202309:08

In-town pool report #2- Vilsack joining briefing
From the White House--
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will be joined by Secretary Tom Vilsack at today's press briefing, which will now begin at 1:15pm.



September 25, 202310:25

In-town pool report #3
Pool is gathering for the meeting with Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) leaders for the U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum Summit in the East Room.



September 25, 202311:04

In-town pool report #4- meeting
Pool entered the room at 10:46pm. President Biden was seated in the middle of a table, next to Secretary of State Blinken. 24 leaders total at the table.
Meeting was streamed in the usual places but some highlights-
Biden open his remarks by apologizing for not going to Papua New Guinea in May. He then announced investments to Pacific island nations. Please check against transcript.
He said US is providing $20M to prepare for future climate crises.
"I want you to know I hear you.. we hear your warnings of the rising seas," Biden said.
He also announced he is working with Congress to invest in an infrastructure initiative in the Pacific islands, which would include digital connectivity investments.
Biden stopped talking at 10:52pm and prime minister Mark Brown of the Cook Islands spoke after him.
Pool cleared out at 11:01.
Biden didn't respond to questions over why his Bideonomics message isn't reasonating voters or what he will say to striking workers in Detroit tomorrow. He smiled and appeared to shake his head slightly when asked about new ABC-Washington Post polling.
Passing along from WH—
The President is hosting Pacific Islands Leaders at the White House for the U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum:
U.S. Manifest
The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, United States Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council
Pacific Islands Leaders 
The Hon. Mark Brown, Prime Minister of the Cook Islands and Chair of the Pacific Islands ForumThe Hon. Sitiveni L. Rabuka, Prime Minister of the Republic FijiThe Hon. Hu'akavameiliku, Prime Minister of TongaH.E. Taneti Maamau, President of the Republic of KiribatiH.E. Surangel Whipps Jnr, President of the Republic of PalauH.E. David W Kabua, President of the Republic of the Marshall IslandsH.E. Russ Kun, President of the Republic of NauruH.E. Wesley W. Simina, President of the Federated States of MicronesiaThe Hon. James Marape, Prime Minister of Papua New GuineaThe Hon. Kausea Natano, Prime Minister of TuvaluThe Hon. Fiame Naomi Mata'afa, Prime Minister of SamoaThe Hon. Dalton Tagelagi, Premier of NiueThe Hon. Louis Mapou, President of New CaledoniaThe Hon. Moetai Brotherson, President of French PolynesiaThe Hon. Nanaia Mahuta, Minister of Foreign Affairs for New ZealandMr. Collin Beck, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs & External Trade for the Solomon IslandsH.E Odo Tevi, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Vanuatu to the United NationsH.E. Ewen McDonald, Special Envoy for the Pacific and Regional Affairs of Australia
Speaking Program
The PresidentThe Hon. Mark Brown, Prime Minister of the Cook Islands and Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum



September 25, 202311:32

In town pool report #5
Pool is gathering for the family photo with Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) leaders at the South Portico.



September 25, 202312:08

In-town pool report #6- family photo
Biden and Pacific Island nation leaders walked out at 12:03pm. Biden walked into the middle of a red carpet in front of flags and leaders surrounded him. He put his arm around PM Mark Brown of Cook Islands next to him for a few seconds.
Biden was asked by reporters if the governor will shut down this week and he laughed, along with other leaders. He didn't respond to a question about his message to China with this summit.
He was asked for his message to car companies as he's going to Detroit.
"Stay under the speed limit," Biden replied.
Leaders walked away after the photograph. Biden waved his hand and said thank you, exiting at 12:04pm.



September 25, 202312:11

In-town pool report #7
Passing along—
The President is participating in a family photo with Pacific Islands Leaders.
Participants
The Hon. Mark Brown, Prime Minister of the Cook Islands and Chair of the Pacific Islands ForumThe Hon. Sitiveni L. Rabuka, Prime Minister of the Republic FijiThe Hon. Hu'akavameiliku, Prime Minister of TongaH.E. Taneti Maamau, President of the Republic of KiribatiH.E. Surangel Whipps Jnr, President of the Republic of PalauH.E. David W Kabua, President of the Republic of the Marshall IslandsH.E. Russ Kun, President of the Republic of NauruH.E. Wesley W. Simina, President of the Federated States of MicronesiaThe Hon. James Marape, Prime Minister of Papua New GuineaThe Hon. Kausea Natano, Prime Minister of TuvaluThe Hon. Fiame Naomi Mata'afa, Prime Minister of SamoaThe Hon. Dalton Tagelagi, Premier of NiueThe Hon. Louis Mapou, President of New CaledoniaThe Hon. Moetai Brotherson, President of French PolynesiaThe Hon. Nanaia Mahuta, Minister of Foreign Affairs for New ZealandMr. Collin Beck, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs & External Trade for the Solomon IslandsH.E Odo Tevi, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Vanuatu to the United NationsH.E. Ewen McDonald, Special Envoy for the Pacific and Regional Affairs of Australia



September 25, 202312:31

In-town pool report #8
We have a lunch lid until 1pm.



September 25, 202313:29

In-town pool report #9- 2 mins
2 min warning until the briefing.



September 25, 202315:39

In-town pool report #10- gathering
Pool is gathering now for a meeting with the president's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities in the Roosevelt Room.
The event will be steamed  here.



September 25, 202316:03

In-town pool #11- HBCU mtg/ shutdown remarks
The pool entered at 3:43pm. Biden sat at the end of a long table next to VP Harris.
Biden in remarks said "there's a lot more to do" on HBCUs and talked about the percentage of judges, lawyers and other professions educated by HBCUs. He spoke about funding for HBCUs from his administration and said the group just discussed how to make HBCUs more affordable for students.
Biden started talking about a government shutdown at 3:51pm, focusing on the impact one would have on the Black community.
"Funding the government is one of the most basic fundamental responsibilities of Congress," adding that if they don't do their job maybe they shouldn't be in office.
He turned remarks over to Harris at 3:53pm. She said she is the first vice president who is a HBCU graduate and the group at the table all clapped. Biden joked she made staff wear HBCU shirts and was looking at Silas Woods, who is wearing a Howard sweatshirt.
Biden spoke again minutes later about how if HBCUs are doing well, "everybody does better in the whole United States."
He answered a question about if he supports the UAW.
When asked if he has spoken to Speaker McCarthy, he shook his head. When asked if he will, he appeared to mouth no and shook his head again.
Pool was then ushered out.



September 25, 202316:04

In-town pool #12
Passing along—
In attendance for the President's meeting with the Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities:
Administration Participants:
The Vice PresidentSteve Benjamin, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Public EngagementNeera Tanden, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy Advisor
President's Board of Advisors:
Tony Allen, Chair of the President's Board of Advisors on HBCUs and President of Delaware State UniversityGlenda Glover, Vice Chair of the President's Board of Advisors on HBCUs and President of Tennessee State UniversityMakola M. Abdullah, President of Virginia State UniversityJavaune Adams-Gaston, President of Norfolk State UniversityPaige Blake, Student at Bowie State UniversityPatrick Cokley, Chief Organizing Advocacy and Learning at Civic InfluencersMonica Goldson, Chief Executive Officer for Prince George's County Public SchoolsBrett Hart, President of United AirlinesShevrin Jones, Educator and State LegislatorWalter M. Kimbrough, Former President of Dillard University and Philander Smith CollegeWilliam F. L. Moses, Managing Director for the Kresge Foundation's Education ProgramQuinton T. Ross Jr., President of Alabama UniversityJaneen Uzzell, Chief Executive Officer at the National Society of Black Engineers



September 25, 202316:39

In-town pool report #13
After reviewing the tape, Biden shook his head when asked if he has spoken to McCarthy.
"I haven't," he said, very quietly. He then just shook his head again when asked: will you speak to him?



September 25, 202316:50

In-town pool report #14- lid
We have a lid.
Have a good evening, all!




 
Pool Reports below by Kimberly Seif, NHK Japan Broadcasting Corporation 



Sent:
Reports:




September 25, 202308:15

Foreign Pool Report #1 - Schedule
Good morning,
I will be your foreign pool reporter for the US-Pacific Island Forum Summit today. Kindly find below President's daily guidance. In addition to this schedule of events, the Pacific Island Leaders will be arriving at the White House at 9:30 this morning. This event is open press with a gather time at 9:10. The President will not attend this event.
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
9:45 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT hosts a meeting with Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) leaders for the U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum SummitEast RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 10:10 AM – Palm Room Doors)
11:40 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in a family photo with Pacific Islands Forum (PIF) leadersSouth PorticoOpen Press (Pre-set 8:30 AM, Gather 11:15 AM – Palm Room Doors)
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts a meeting with the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities; THE VICE PRESIDENT participatesRoosevelt RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 3:30 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
Briefing Schedule
EDT
1:30 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre



September 25, 202308:54

Foreign Pool Report #2 - Background on US- Pacific Island Forum Summit
Good morning,
Kindly find below some background information for the summit.
Agenda
Events for this summit are happening over the next two days. Per a senior administration official, on Sunday, some leaders attending the summit traveled from New York to Baltimore via a special Amtrak, where they were guests at the Baltimore Ravens game at the M&T Stadium. The leaders were brought out onto the field and recognized "for their roles as American friends in the Indo-Pacific." After the game, the leaders were taken aboard a U.S. Coast Guard cutter ship on the Baltimore Harbor and they were briefed by the Commandant of the Coast Guard on actions the U.S. Coast Guard is taking to combat illegal fishing and manage maritime domains.
Today, the formal summit begins with the leaders arriving at the White House followed by the summit meeting and a family photo. They will then conduct a working lunch before the leaders depart the White House for their afternoon events. Their afternoon schedule includes a roundtable with Secretary John Kerry, the United States Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, where they will discuss efforts to combat climate change, and a dinner this evening hosted by Secretary of State Antony Blinken and U.N. Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield at the State Department.
On Tuesday, the leaders will begin with a breakfast hosted by Secretary John Kerry and USAID Administrator Samantha Power, and members of Congress will then meet with the Pacific Island leaders on Capitol Hill. Later that afternoon, Treasury Secretary Yellen and other members of the administration will hold a business roundtable focused on how Pacific region economies can promote trade and investment. The summit will conclude with a barbecue hosted by the Australian ambassador and the government of Australia. The Second Gentleman is expected to attend.
Expected Announcements
Per two senior administration officials, during this summit, the United States will recognize and establish diplomatic relations with the Cook Islands and Niue. The administration will also note the opening of two embassies in the Solomon Islands and Tonga and a USAID Regional Pacific Mission in Fiji over the last year, and track the opening of another embassy in Vanuatu for early next year in an effort to show the progress the United States has made in expanding its diplomatic presence in the region. Additionally, it will be announced that the Quad is bringing its maritime domain awareness initiative (IPMDA) to the Pacific Islands, with a program worth more than $10 million. This will be the first official partnership between the Quad and a Pacific Island institution.
The administration will also unveil plans to provide secure undersea cable connectivity to Pacific Island nations as well as announcing additional infrastructure projects. There will also be the announcement of programs that emphasize people-to-people ties including a young leaders' training program at Johns Hopkins and a sister cities initiative that will pair up American cities with Pacific Island cities.
Additionally – A senior administration official stated that during the summit, the administration would likely be able to indicate the "substantial progress" that has been made regarding the Marshall Islands' Compact of Free Association (COFA) negotiations. The Marshall Islands is one of three Pacific Islands nations that is covered by a COFA with the United States. The negotiations with the other two nations, Palau and the Federated States of Micronesia, were concluded back in May, but the negotiation for the Marshall Islands remains ongoing and the existing agreement is set to expire on September 30. The president of the Marshall Islands called on the United States to provide funds in order to deal with the legacy of the U.S. nuclear testing that occurred on the Marshall Islands in the 1940s and 1950s.
On China
On the influence that China has had on the United States engagement in the region, a senior administration official said that there is "no question" that the PRC's assertiveness and influence in the region has been a factor and "requires us to sustain our strategic focus." The official said that U.S. engagement with the Pacific Islands is tied to the belief in a free and open Indo-Pacific and that this summit will show the United States, working with like-minded partners, as a viable alternative that will work for Pacific Island nations.
Who is attending:
There is no list yet on how many leaders have confirmed their attendance to the summit. A senior administration official stated that the summit will have "very good attendance" and where a Prime Minister is not able to attend, in almost every case they have sent a foreign minister.
Senior administration officials as well as his office confirmed that Prime Minister Sato Kilman of Vanuatu will not be in attendance as he has to be in parliament on Monday for a no-confidence vote.
Prime Minister Sogavare of the Solomon Islands will also not be attending. Sogavare returned home to the Solomon Islands over the weekend after attending UNGA in New York. The administration official said his absence was "disappointing." ** The Prime Minister's absence is especially notable because he refused to sign the U.S. Pacific Partnership Strategy last year. Additionally, the Solomon Islands signed a security agreement with China last year, and, most recently in July, agreed to an additional deal to increase cooperation between the two countries on law enforcement and security matters.
Previous Meetings
This is the second summit President Biden has convened with the Pacific Island Forum in Washington. The previous summit was September 28-29, 2022. At last year's summit, the White House released its first ever Pacific Partnership Strategy which was aimed at strengthening the partnership and targeting issues like climate change and the security of the region.
President Biden was meant to meet with the leaders again this past May in Papua New Guinea while traveling overseas for the G7 Summit, which was held in Hiroshima, Japan. Unfortunately, that trip was canceled along with President Biden's trip to Australia in order to return to D.C. for the negotiations of the debt limit.
President Biden delivered a pre-recorded video speech to the Pacific Island Forum on the organization's 51st Leaders Meeting online summit on August 6. 2021. This marked the first time a sitting U.S. President had led a delegation and addressed the forum. Vice President Harris also addressed the PIF virtually in July 2022.
Pacific Island Forum The Pacific Island Forum was founded in 1971 and is comprised of 18 members: Australia, Cook Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Fiji, French Polynesia, Kiribati, Nauru, New Caledonia, New Zealand, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Republic of Marshall Islands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.



September 25, 202309:15

Foreign pool report #3 - Gather for leaders arrival
Press was called to gather at the Palm Room doors for the Pacific Island leaders arrival.



September 25, 202310:07

Foreign Pool report #4 - Arrivals
The first leader arrived at the South Portico at 9:28 a.m.
As each delegation drove up in separate cars, the flags for their respective countries would be brought out and displayed opposite the red carpet of the American flag. Based on the flag, the press gathered were able to tell which delegations were arriving. Your foreign pooler will inquire about a full list of the attendants from the White House Press Office. All the arrivals stopped for photos after the car pulled away and then walked into the White House.
This is the arrival order based on your foreign looker's observations —
AustraliaFrench PolynesiaSecretary General for PIFTongaVanuatuFederated States of MicronesiaFijiNiueMarshall IslandsPalauSolomon IslandsSamoaNauruTuvaluPapua New GuineaKiribatiCook Islands
The arrivals finished at 10:04



September 25, 202310:11

Foreign Pool report #4 - Arrivals
[APP Note: This is likely Report #5]
The previous note should have said based on your foreign pooler's observations, not looker. Apologies for the error



September 25, 202310:50

Foreign pool report #6 - PIF summit ongoing
Pool entered the East Room at 10:46.
The President was already in the room and seated. As were all of the delegations.
POTUS began speaking at 10:47. Remarks are ongoing
The event is being live-streamed at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 25, 202310:52

Foreign pool report #7 - Summit participants
From the White House press office —
The President is hosting Pacific Islands Leaders at the White House for the U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum:
U.S. Manifest
The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, United States Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, National Security Council
Pacific Islands Leaders 
The Hon. Mark Brown, Prime Minister of the Cook Islands and Chair of the Pacific Islands ForumThe Hon. Sitiveni L. Rabuka, Prime Minister of the Republic FijiThe Hon. Hu'akavameiliku, Prime Minister of TongaH.E. Taneti Maamau, President of the Republic of KiribatiH.E. Surangel Whipps Jnr, President of the Republic of PalauH.E. David W Kabua, President of the Republic of the Marshall IslandsH.E. Russ Kun, President of the Republic of NauruH.E. Wesley W. Simina, President of the Federated States of MicronesiaThe Hon. James Marape, Prime Minister of Papua New GuineaThe Hon. Kausea Natano, Prime Minister of TuvaluThe Hon. Fiame Naomi Mata'afa, Prime Minister of SamoaThe Hon. Dalton Tagelagi, Premier of NiueThe Hon. Louis Mapou, President of New CaledoniaThe Hon. Moetai Brotherson, President of French PolynesiaThe Hon. Nanaia Mahuta, Minister of Foreign Affairs for New ZealandMr. Collin Beck, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs & External Trade for the Solomon IslandsH.E Odo Tevi, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Vanuatu to the United NationsH.E. Ewen McDonald, Special Envoy for the Pacific and Regional Affairs of Australia
Speaking Program
The PresidentThe Hon. Mark Brown, Prime Minister of the Cook Islands and Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum



September 25, 202311:07

Foreign pool report #8 - PIF summit
Seated on either side of POTUS in the room was Secretary Antony Blinken and Prime Minister Mark Brown. POTUS finished speaking at 10:52.
Prime Minister Mark Brown of the Cook Islands spoke next. Said the milestone of establishing diplomatic relations with the Cook Islands and Niue represent "eras of change" Finished speaking at 11:00.
POTUS did not respond to a shouted question about Bidenomics.
Pool were pulled from the room at 11:01



September 25, 202311:26

Foreign Pool Report #9 -- Some quotes from the PIF Meeting
Please check these quotes against the transcript. The event was live-streamed at https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
POTUS- Said the United States was delivering on progress made at last year's summit- "Alongside our partners, the Blue Pacific, we're increasing our climate assistance, including more than $20 million for new investments to prepare for climate and natural hazards."- "Today, I'm pleased to announce we're working with Congress to address $40 billion in our Pacific islands Infrastructure Initiative."
Prime Minister Mark Brown- "Our own organization the Pacific Islands Forum, is 52 years old this year. And as mentioned today, the Cook Islands and Niue celebrate milestones of formal diplomatic relations with the United States respectively. These milestones celebrate eras of change, and demonstrate that with unshakable resolve and leadership, remarkable achievements are possible in our discussions today"- "We have an opportunity here as the Pacific Islands Forum and as the United States to develop our partnerships for prosperity"- "In a few weeks, I will host the 52nd Pacific Island forum leaders meeting where we will endorse the 2050 strategy implementation plan. a plan by the Pacific and for the Pacific that will ensure the security and prosperity of all Pacific people to lead free, healthy and productive lives."
- I strongly encourage the US as a critical founding dialogue partner to actively engage at the highest level in the upcoming forum dialogue partners meeting"
Additional color -
The summit participants were seated at three long tables. Each participant had a name card in front of them.



September 25, 2023
[APP Note: Report #10 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


September 25, 202312:03

Foreign pool report #11 - 2 minutes to group photo
2 minute warning to group photo in the South Portico



September 25, 202312:10

Foreign pool report #12 — group photo
Leaders walked out at 12:03 and lined up on a red carpet in front of a line of flags.
Biden briefly wrapped an arm around and was speaking to Prime Minister Mark Brown.
Biden responded to one question :
Q: What's your message to car companies as you head to Detroit
Biden - "Stay under the speed limit"



September 25, 202312:12

Foreign Pool Report 13 - Participating in group photo
From the White House Press Office --
The President is participating in a family photo with Pacific Islands Leaders.
Participants
The Hon. Mark Brown, Prime Minister of the Cook Islands and Chair of the Pacific Islands ForumThe Hon. Sitiveni L. Rabuka, Prime Minister of the Republic FijiThe Hon. Hu'akavameiliku, Prime Minister of TongaH.E. Taneti Maamau, President of the Republic of KiribatiH.E. Surangel Whipps Jnr, President of the Republic of PalauH.E. David W Kabua, President of the Republic of the Marshall IslandsH.E. Russ Kun, President of the Republic of NauruH.E. Wesley W. Simina, President of the Federated States of MicronesiaThe Hon. James Marape, Prime Minister of Papua New GuineaThe Hon. Kausea Natano, Prime Minister of TuvaluThe Hon. Fiame Naomi Mata'afa, Prime Minister of SamoaThe Hon. Dalton Tagelagi, Premier of NiueThe Hon. Louis Mapou, President of New CaledoniaThe Hon. Moetai Brotherson, President of French PolynesiaThe Hon. Nanaia Mahuta, Minister of Foreign Affairs for New ZealandMr. Collin Beck, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Foreign Affairs & External Trade for the Solomon IslandsH.E Odo Tevi, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Vanuatu to the United NationsH.E. Ewen McDonald, Special Envoy for the Pacific and Regional Affairs of Australia



September 25, 202312:31

Foreign Pool Report #14 - Lid until 1 p.m.
From White House Press Office -- There is a lid until 1 p.m.



September 25, 202312:37

Foreign Pool Report #15 - No stop at sticks expected
The White House Press Office has told your foreign pooler that no Pacific Island leaders are expected to speak at the sticks today.
Also, the leaders' departures from the White House this afternoon will not be covered by press.



September 25, 202314:47

Foreign Pool Report #16
Good afternoon,
In case it was missed by anyone, I wanted to forward along the two documents the White House just released on the U.S. Pacific Island Partnership.
FACT SHEET: Enhancing the U.S.-Pacific Islands Partnershiphttps://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/25/fact-sheet-enhancing-the-u-s-pacific-islands-partnership/
U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum Leaders Statement on Reaffirming U.S.-Pacific Partnershiphttps://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/25/u-s-pacific-islands-forum-leaders-statement-on-reaffirming-u-s-pacific-partnership/
Since the leaders' departures from the White House are not covered by press, that is it from me today! It was my pleasure to be your foreign pooler and I hope everyone has a great rest of the day!




  