
    1,700 Nevada Members Will Organize Caucus Goers For Clinton
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Nevada's local lodge of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. The local 845 of the IAM consists of over 1,700 active and retired members with representatives in all parts of the state.
The IAM's national endorsement was announced last Thursday at the National Staff Conference in Orlando, FL. The IAM is among the nation's largest industrial trade unions, representing over 700,000 active and retired members in airline, aerospace, manufacturing, railroad, woodworking and shipbuilding industries, and is a member of the AFL-CIO.
"Hillary Clinton's long-established advocacy and hard work on behalf of the nation's industrial trades workers solidify Nevada's IAM support for her presidential campaign," said Richard Dishman, president and legislative director of the IAM local 845. "As a backer of the Employee Free Choice Act, Senator Clinton understands the importance of a worker's right to organize and to bargain collectively. Our local lodge is proud to endorse Senator Clinton's candidacy, and I am confident that as a result of her presidency the working middle class will regain the deserved respect and compensation that has been neglected during the current administration—that is the change we need. We look forward to mobilizing caucus goers for Senator Clinton in every corner of the state."
"Hillary Clinton earned the IAM's endorsement by focusing on jobs, health care, education and trade – the bread and butter issues of the American middle class," said IAM International President Tom Buffenbarger. "She is the only candidate of either party to come forward with a comprehensive manufacturing policy and the only candidate to connect with millions of Americans who feel invisible to the current administration."
The IAM will launch a massive education campaign among IAM members and extensive publicity in union publications and websites nationwide. Twenty-five states with over 450,000 active and retired IAM members will vote in the three weeks starting with the Iowa caucuses and ending with the polls closing in California on February 5th.
"I am honored to receive the support of the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers," Clinton said. "It is time for America's working families to again share in our nation's prosperity. They will not be invisible to my administration."
  