
    Meanwhile, Joe Biden once honored a former KKK Exalted Cyclops and repeatedly used the N-word.
Today in Kenosha, Biden lied (again) and repeated the false claim that President Trump praised white supremacists in Charlottesville. Joe Biden even launched his campaign on this entirely fake news.
As CNN's Jake Tapper has said, President Trump did not call neo-Nazis or white supremacists "very fine people."

Jake Tapper: "Elsewhere in those remarks the President did condemn neo-Nazis and white supremacists. So he's not saying that the neo-Nazis and white supremacists are very fine people"
President Trump, August 15, 2017: "I'm not talking about the neo-Nazis and the white nationalists — because they should be condemned totally."

Joe Biden loves to traffick in fear and division by lying about what Trump said or hasn't said. But Biden is the one who proudly befriended segregationists, touted an award from George Wallace, honored a former Exalted Cyclops of the Ku Klux Klan, worried his kids would grow up in a "racial jungle," marveled that Barack Obama was "articulate" and "clean," bragged about being from a slave state, and repeatedly used the n-word.
Biden happily accepted the endorsement of Rep. James Clyburn, a proud supporter and strong defender of racist anti-Semite Louis Farrakhan, who said Hitler was "a very great man." Kamala Harris also racked up endorsements from Farrakhan-lovers, including Rep. Alcee Hastings and Rep. William Lacy Clay.
President Trump has repeatedly and specifically denounced racism, extremism, anti-Semitism, and white supremacists. Here are just a few examples:

TRUMP: "The anti-Semitic threats targeting our Jewish community and community centers are horrible and are painful and a very sad reminder of the work that still must be done to root out hate and prejudice and evil." (February 21, 2017)
TRUMP: "Recent threats targeting Jewish community centers and vandalism of Jewish cemeteries as well as last week's shooting in Kansas City remind us that while we may be a nation divided on policies, we are a country that stands united in condemning hate and evil in all of its very ugly forms." (April 11, 2017)
TRUMP: "We condemn in the strongest possible terms this egregious display of hatred, bigotry, and violence. It has no place in America." (August 14, 2017)
TRUMP: "The riots in Charlottesville a year ago resulted in senseless death and division... I condemn all types of racism and acts of violence." (August 11, 2018)
TRUMP: "We forcefully condemn the evil of anti-Semitism and hate. It must be defeated." (April 27, 2019)

  