
    "Whether it's a self-assessed 'incomplete' grade on the economy or false suggestions that Americans are better off under his leadership, President Obama couldn't be more out of touch with the middle class. After four years of declining incomes, fewer jobs, skyrocketing prices, and chronic unemployment, it's clear that Americans aren't better off. If President Obama can't even give himself a passing grade, why would the American people give him another four years?" – Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Last Night, President Obama Gave Himself An "Incomplete" Grade On The Economy:
Last Night, President Obama Graded Himself "Incomplete" On The Economy.REPORTER: "Your party says you inherited a bad situation, you've had three and a half years to fix it, what grade would you give yourself so far for doing that?" PRESIDENT OBAMA: "You know, I would say incomplete."(KKTV [Colorado Springs, CO], 9/3/12)


    Click Here To Watch
  

But It Wasn't Long Ago That President Obama Claimed He Would Face A "One-Term Proposition" If He Failed To Fix The Economy:
President Obama, In February 2009: "If I Don't Have This Done In Three Years, Then There's Going To Be A One-Term Proposition."  OBAMA: "That's exactly right. And — and, you know, a year from now I think people — are going to see that — we're starting to make some progress. But there's still going to be some pain out there. If I don't have this done in three years, then there's going to be a one-term proposition." (NBC's "The Today Show," 2/2/09)
President Obama, On Taking Responsibility For The Economy In 2009: "That's Fine. Give It To Me. My Job Is To Solve Problems, Not To Stand On The Sidelines And Harp And Gripe." OBAMA: "Now, my administration has a job to do, as well, and that job is to get this economy back on its feet.  That's my job.  And it's a job I gladly accept.  I love these folks who helped get us in this mess and then suddenly say, well, this is Obama's economy.  That's fine.  Give it to me.  My job is to solve problems, not to stand on the sidelines and harp and gripe." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Warren, MI, 7/14/09)
Nearly Four Years Later, Is It An Incomplete Or Failing Grade? Millions Of Middle-Class Americans Aren't Better Off In The Obama Economy:
Since President Obama Took Office, The Nation Has Lost 316,000 Jobs And The Unemployment Rate Has Remained Above 8% For 42 Straight Months. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 9/4/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, Median Household Income Has Declined By Over $4,000. "In January 2009, the month President Obama entered the Oval Office and shortly before he signed his stimulus spending bill, median household income was $54,983. By June 2012, it had tumbled to $50,964, adjusted for inflation. (See the chart nearby.) That's $4,019 in lost real income, a little less than a month's income every year." (Editorial, "Negative $4,019," The Wall Street Journal, 8/24/12)
The Majority Of New Jobs Created In President Obama's So-Called Recovery "Pay Much Less" Than Jobs Before The Recession."Although six in 10 jobs lost during the Great Recession paid mid-level wages, the majority of new jobs created in the recovery -- positions such as store clerks, laborers and home healthcare aides -- pay much less, according to a new study." (Jim Puzzanghera, "Majority Of New Jobs In Recovery Are Low-Paying, Study Finds," Los Angeles Times, 8/31/12)


    "The Findings Highlight Concerns About A Shrinking Middle Class..." "The findings highlight concerns about a shrinking middle class and pose another obstacle to getting the economy back on track, said Annette Bernhardt, policy co-director at the National Employment Law Project, which conducted the study." (Jim Puzzanghera, "Majority Of New Jobs In Recovery Are Low-Paying, Study Finds," Los Angeles Times, 8/31/12)
  

Since President Obama Took Office, More Than Six Million Americans Have Already Fallen Into Poverty.(U.S. Census Bureau, www.census.gov, 9/1/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, The Average Price Per Gallon Of Gas Has More Than Doubled From $1.85 To $3.78. (U.S. Energy And Information Administration, Accessed 8/30/12)
Since President Obama Took Office, The Average Cost Of In-State Tuition At A Four Year College Has Risen From $6,585 To $8,244 – A 25 Percent Increase. ("Trends In College Pricing 2009," College Board, 2008; "Trends In College Pricing 2011," College Board, 2011)
Since President Obama Took Office, The Average Cost Of Family Health Care Premiums Have Increased From $12,680 To $15,073 – An Increase Of $2,393. ("Employer Health Benefits, 2011 Annual Survey, Exhibit 1.11" Kaiser Family Foundation, 2011)
Since President Obama Took Office, Homeowners Have Received More Than 8 Million Foreclosure Notices. (RealtyTrac Website, 8/12/12)
  