
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 8
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
September 10
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Cabinet;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland and the Voluntary Agency Partners in the Combined Federal Campaign.
The President announced that he has designated Richard R. Rivers as Acting Special Representative for Trade Negotiations.
September 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—members of the Senate Energy Committee;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Secretary of Energy Charles W. Duncan, Jr., and members of the New Coalition and the State and Local Energy Task Force.
The President participated in a briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation treaty given for community leaders in the East Room at the White House.
The President announced the appointment of the following three persons to the American National Red Cross Board of Governors:
PATRICIA ROBERTS HARRIS, Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare;
JOHN W. MACY, Director of the Federal Emergency Management Agency; and
ROBERT B. PIRIE, JR., Assistant Secretary of Defense for Manpower, Reserve Affairs and Logistics.
The President has signed an order designating three positions for membership on the Emergency Management Council. They are the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs, the Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs and Policy, and the Secretary to the Cabinet and Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs.
September 12
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski.
The President participated in a breakfast briefing by administration officials on the strategic arms limitation treaty given for a group of religious leaders in the State Dining Room at the White House.
September 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of Senators to discuss energy;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of the Women's Sports Foundation, including Carol Mann, professional golfer; Janet Guthrie, race car driver; Lacey O'Neal, former Olympics track and field contender; and Donna E. de Varona, member of the President's Advisory Committee for Women and Olympic gold medal winner;
—Al Rubin and a delegation from the National Planning Council for the International Year of Disabled Persons;
—the heads of ABC, CBS, NBC networks and the presidents of their parent organizations, and Gerald M. Rafshoon, Assistant to the President for Communications, to discuss energy.
The President declared major disasters for Alabama, Florida, and Mississippi because of extensive public and private property damage caused by Hurricane Frederic.
The President attended a reception for members of the Conference of National Volunteer Organizations held in the East Room at the White House.
September 14
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, Hedley W. Donovan, Senior Adviser to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—John M. Craig, a participant in the Tampa, Fla., town meeting.
The President participated in a briefing on the administration's programs and policies, given for civic and community leaders from Florida in the East Room at the White House.
The White House announced that the President has signed two Presidential determinations under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. One states his determination that $4.8 million should be appropriated to provide assistance to the victims of Hurricane David in the Caribbean. The other authorizes furnishing $10 million to Yugoslavia from the fiscal year 1979 Economic Support Fund. These funds will be used for reconstruction following the earthquake there.
The President announced that he has appointed Hugh Carter, Jr., Special Assistant to the President for Administration, to be a member of the President's Commission on Executive Exchange. This Commission runs an executive interchange program between the Federal Government and private industry.
The President left the White House for a weekend stay at Camp David, Md.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Maryland as a result of severe storms, tornadoes, and flooding on September 5 and 6, which caused extensive property damage.
  