
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

No Americans have done more to win and protect the peace than the men and women of our Armed Forces, past and present.
Veterans Day affords each of us the opportunity to join our fellow citizens, in communities across the Nation, in honoring those whose love of country knew no bounds?those to whom patriotism was principle, not mere sentiment. Without the sacrifices which our brave veterans made so freely and so generously, our cherished freedom would long ago have vanished.
On this historic day, let us resolve anew to keep faith with those who have done so much to shape this Nation with their honor and valor. The flag under which they served is the emblem of our unity, our power, our purpose as a Nation. It has no other character than that which we give it from generation to generation.
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter, President of the United States of America, do hereby invite citizens everywhere to join with me in observing Veterans Day on Sunday, November 11, 1979. Let the past and present unite in prayer that America will ever seek the ways of peace, and, by her example at home and throughout the world, hasten the return of goodwill among men.
This is a particularly appropriate time to remember with respect and affection our sick and disabled veterans. I urge their families and friends to visit with them and reassure them of their country's enduring gratitude.
I call upon the press, radio and television and other media of public information to participate in this observance to help realize the full purpose and meaning of this important commemoration.
I ask that Federal, State and local government officials arrange for the display of the flag of the United States on this day, and encourage the public's involvement in appropriate ceremonies throughout our land.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.

JIMMY CARTER
  