
    Today, Romney for President released a new web video, "Obama Isn't Working: Labor." The video highlights the failure of President Obama's labor policies. Paul Munsch discusses how he and his employees have faced years of bullying by the union bosses with whom President Obama continues to side.
To View "Obama Isn't Working: Labor" Please See: http://mi.tt/mTD5Uq
AD FACTS: Script For "Obama Isn't Working: Labor"
SEN. BARACK OBAMA: "It's time we had a president who didn't choke saying the word 'union.' A president who strengthens our unions by letting them do what they do best: organize our workers."

SEN. BARACK OBAMA: "It's time we had a president who didn't choke saying the word 'union.' A president who strengthens our unions by letting them do what they do best: organize our workers." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Service Employees International Union Member Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 9/17/07)

PAUL MUNSCH: "My name's Paul Munsch. I've owned a company called St. Louis Paving. A man came up to me and handed me a business card that said "Organizer, Laborers' International Union of America.' And he says: 'You've got 'til April 27th to talk to us about how we can improve your business.' So, I said, no thank you, I'm not interested. And my men went along with me. They were all right behind me. So, it was a team effort. So we fast forward to April 27th. We're working at a shopping mall. All of a sudden, six guys jump out. They start videotaping our equipment, videotaping our men, videotaping their cars and their license plates. With that, they blew up this 25 foot tall inflatable rat, with our name plastered on its chest, blood coming out of its mouth. And they all picked up picket signs and started picketing in front of the building."
OBAMA: "It's time we had a president who didn't choke saying the word 'union.'"

SEN. BARACK OBAMA: "It's time we had a president who didn't choke saying the word 'union.' A president who strengthens our unions by letting them do what they do best: organize our workers." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Service Employees International Union Member Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 9/17/07)

MUNSCH: "We've never been union, and our employees have never expressed an interest in being union. If we were union, we'd be dealing with three unions, not one: the Teamsters, the Operating Engineers, and the Laborers. The guy who's on the roller couldn't pick up a shovel. The guy with a shovel couldn't get in a truck. The guy in the, driving the truck couldn't get out and get on the roller or pick up a shovel. To me, it was just the inefficiency of that was just grating. I think it offends the sensibility of any businessman to think of that. But I think it offends anybody's sensibility. That kind of inefficiency doesn't make any sense to anybody."
OBAMA: "We're ready to play some offense for organized labor."

SEN. BARACK OBAMA: "We're ready to play some offense for organized labor." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Service Employees International Union Member Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 9/17/07)

MUNSCH: "And what they would do is show up at our equipment yard. And they would follow our trucks to a job. And, they would put up pickets. They'd try to embarrass us, embarrass us in front of our customers. And the hope would be that our customers would stop using us, and we'd feel forced to sign an agreement with the union.
Almost everything they do makes the skin crawl in anybody who hears this story. And yet, everything they do is legal. And I've tried to give President Obama the benefit of the doubt on a lot of issues. It's been one union payoff after another. If businesses are faced with these possibilities, we'll do nothing but eliminate employment. These guys are school yard bullies. They're playground bullies. They, you know, they gang up on some kid and beat on him long enough to get his lunch money. Somebody had to stand up to them."
OBAMA: "A president who strengthens our unions by letting them do what they do best: organize our workers."

SEN. BARACK OBAMA: "It's time we had a president who didn't choke saying the word 'union.' A president who strengthens our unions by letting them do what they do best: organize our workers." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Service Employees International Union Member Political Action Conference, Washington, D.C., 9/17/07)

  