
    Hillary's American Health Choices Plan will cover 496,000 uninsured Nevadans; Save Average Families $2,200 a Year
At a news conference today, Nevadans for Hillary released a report that documents how Hillary Clinton's American Health Choices Plan would affect Nevada.
"Families across Nevada - and the rest of the country - are suffering under the burdens of a health care system where they cannot afford insurance," said Senator Clinton. "Even if they can afford it, insurance companies routinely withhold payment for necessary treatments and health care. My plan puts consumers in the driver's seat."
Under Senator Clinton's plan, the 496,000 Nevada residents who have no health insurance - including 101,000 children - will finally receive quality, affordable health care. Nevada has seen a 51 percent increase in the number of uninsured since President Bush took office. [Census 2007]. Senator Clinton's plan will help reverse this trend by providing new refundable tax credits to help cover the cost of high-quality health coverage for all Nevada residents. Those credits will guarantee that securing quality health care never becomes a crushing burden for Nevada families, by guaranteeing that premiums never rise above a certain percentage of family income.
All Nevada residents will benefit from lower costs and improved quality under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, Nevada residents have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs - family premiums are up 58% since 2000. [HHS, 2006]. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save $165 billion per year - or $2200 for a typical family.
Under this plan, all Americans can keep their current insurance, choose a new private plan or take part in a public plan like Medicare. Insurance will be portable and safe from discrimination on the basis of chronic or pre-existing conditions. For more information about Hillary Clinton's health care plan, please visit www.hillaryclinton.com/healthcare.


  Nevada's Health Choices:
  Hillary Clinton's Plan to Ensure Affordable, Quality Healthcare for All Nevada Residents

On Monday, September 17, Hillary Clinton unveiled the third part of her plan to ensure that all Americans have affordable, quality health insurance. Her American Health Choices Plan will provide quality, affordable healthcare to all Americans - including the 496,000 uninsured Nevada residents and the tens of thousands of Nevada workers with coverage who fear they could be one pink slip away from losing their health coverage. [U.S. Census, 2007]. For Nevada residents with health insurance, the plan builds on the current system to give businesses and their employees greater choice of health plans - including keeping the one they have - while lowering cost and improving quality.
Quality, Affordable Coverage for ALL Nevada Workers and Families
The American Health Choices Plan will ensure quality, affordable health care for all Americans by lowering costs, improving quality, and providing new choices for health coverage:

If you are one of the 1,500,000 Nevada residents that are currently covered by an employer-sponsored or individual plan, Senator Clinton's plan provides you with flexibility and choice - you can keep the plan that you have, you can choose from a menu of quality private plans just like those offered to Members of Congress, or you can opt for a public plan option similar to Medicare. [Kaiser Family Foundation, 2006]
If you are one of the 496,000 Nevada residents that have no health insurance - including 101,000 children - Senator Clinton's plan will finally ensure that you can get quality, affordable healthcare. Nevada has seen an increase of 51% in the number of uninsured since President Bush took office. [U.S. Census, 2007]. Senator Clinton's plan will help reverse this trend by providing new refundable tax credits to help cover the cost of high-quality health coverage for all Nevada residents. Those credits will guarantee that securing quality healthcare never becomes a crushing burden for Nevada families, by guaranteeing that premiums never rise above a certain percentage of family income.
If you are one of the 290,000 Nevada seniors on Medicare, Senator Clinton's plan will retain your coverage while making prescription drugs more affordable and easier to obtain. [Kaiser Family Foundation, 2006].
If you are one of the 206,000 Nevada residents receiving public insurance, Senator Clinton's plan will fix the holes in the safety net to ensure that the most vulnerable populations receive affordable, quality care. [Kaiser Family Foundation, 2006].
If you are among the 41% of Nevada residents who have reported poor mental health, the American Health Choices Plan will help to ensure that you receive the comprehensive coverage you need. Nevada has the second-highest prevalence of mental health problems in the country. By guaranteeing affordable access to the same health insurance available to Members of Congress, all Americans will be able to choose from an array of private plans that cover mental health. [Kaiser Family Foundation, 2006].

Lower Costs and Greater Security for Nevada Families
All Nevada residents will benefit from lower costs and greater security under Senator Clinton's plan. Like families across the country, Nevada families have been squeezed by skyrocketing health costs - family premiums are up 58% since 2000. [HHS, 2006]. Senator Clinton has a comprehensive plan to reduce health care costs by modernizing our healthcare infrastructure that will result in tangible savings for Nevada families. According to a recent estimate by the Business Roundtable, AARP and SEIU, Senator Clinton's plan to institute a paperless health information technology system could save $165 billion per year - or $2200 for a typical family.
In addition, Senator Clinton will lower costs and increase security by putting an end to insurance company discrimination. Today in America, insurance companies spend tens of billions of dollars per year figuring out how to avoid costly beneficiaries. Senator Clinton's plan creates new standards that all insurers must follow to ensure that no American is ever again discriminated against by being denied coverage, refused renewal of an insurance policy, unfairly priced out of the market, or charged excessive insurance premiums. Health plans will compete on cost and quality rather than avoiding patients who need insurance the most-ending discrimination and putting money in families' wallets.
Lower Costs and Increased Competitiveness for Nevada Businesses
Senator Clinton recognizes that rising healthcare costs are affecting the ability of Nevada businesses to compete in the global marketplace and create good, high-paying jobs here in the U.S. Her American Health Choices Plan makes health care more affordable for businesses by ending cost-shifting, increasing insurance options, providing relief for retiree health care costs, and by assuring quality and value in our health care system.

Lower Costs and Shared Responsibility for Nevada's Large Employers: Senator Clinton's American Health Choices Plan makes health care more affordable for businesses by ending cost-shifting, increasing insurance options, and assuring quality and value in our health care system. Since every American will have health insurance coverage under the plan, businesses will no longer be required to pay the hidden health care "tax" of financing health care services to the uninsured. In addition firms will have more option - they may continue providing health care coverage through existing arrangements, or may purchase coverage for employees through the new Health Choices Menu. In return, the plan will require large firms to provide health insurance or contribute to the cost of the system.
New Tax Credit for Nevada Small Business: Recognizing that small businesses are a driving force in new job creation, the Clinton plan provides financial incentives for small businesses to purchase health insurance coverage for their employees. Many small businesses in Nevada are doing their part- 45% provide healthcare coverage for their employees, slightly above the national average. The American Health Choices Plan recognizes the pressure these small businesses face, and provides a new tax credit to help offset the cost of providing coverage. For the 45% of small firms that currently offer coverage, the new tax credit will help them continue coverage, and for the 55% who don't, the credit will make it more attractive than ever before to provide healthcare for their employees. [Kaiser Family Foundation, 2006].
Retiree Health Legacy Initiative: For employers with workforces that face unusually high health care costs due to a high ratio of retirees, the American Health Choices Plan will provide a tax credit for qualifying private and public retiree health plans to offset a significant portion of catastrophic expenditures that exceed a certain threshold.

[1][1] Coverage statistics for children under 18 are a 3-year average based on U.S. Census Bureau data 2004-06
  