
    Alexandria, VA - Senator Lindsey Graham is honored to have Senator John McCain campaigning with him in New Hampshire this weekend to urge voters to support Graham for President of the United States. During the campaign swing, Graham and McCain are addressing the fight against radical Islam, how to prevent another 9/11 from hitting our homeland, and why Senator McCain believes that Lindsey Graham is the most qualified to be Commander-in-Chief out of the entire 2016 presidential field at a time when national security is playing the greatest role in a presidential election since Ronald Reagan was elected.
In case you missed it, read Cassidy Swanson's full article in the Union Leaderon why McCain supports Graham here.
At St. Anselm, McCain Supports Graham
By Cassidy Swanson
September 11, 2015
"GOP presidential hopeful Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina was joined by his friend Sen. John McCain of Arizona at St. Anselm College's New Hampshire Institute of Politics yesterday, where the two emphasized the importance of defeating the self-described Islamic State and the issue's importance in the 2016 election.
"McCain said the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks were 'a wake-up call for America,' and that as the country commemorated the 14th anniversary of that day — and the third anniversary of the attack on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya, by Islamic extremists — the threat of terror remains. And Graham, whom he called 'my partner and my brother,' is the man to fix it, McCain said.
"'In no election since 1980 will the issue of national security play a greater role (than 2016), since Ronald Reagan was elected,' McCain said. 'I think the voters and our fellow citizens in New Hampshire should examine the credentials of a candidate who has served this country for 33 years in the military, a man who took countless trips to both Iraq and Afghanistan, a man who advised Gen. Petraeus on the very sensitive issue of detainees, a man who understands the challenges. Lindsey Graham predicted every single thing that has happened because of a lack of leadership — a failure by this President of the United States.'
...
"Graham said he has 'never been more worried ... about another 9/11,' citing a growing number of terrorist organizations worldwide. He also slammed President Obama as 'a weak opponent of evil, and a poor champion of freedom.'
...
"Because of Obama's lack of understanding, the gains of troops in Iraq were 'squandered needlessly,' Graham said.
...
"In order to dismantle ISIL, the U.S. must 'fundamentally change our strategy,' Graham said.
"'The reason I am running for President of the United States is to destroy ISIL and win against radical Islam,' he said. 'John and I know one thing: you can beat these guys with the right strategy.'
...
"When the senators were asked about Donald Trump, McCain said he wanted all candidates 'to be asked legitimate questions.'
"'If you want to deport 11 million people, tell me how you'd do that,' McCain said. 'If you want to defeat ISIS and your answer is you're going to take away their oil, tell me how that works. In other words, I just think all candidates, including Mr. Trump, ought to give the details of their proposals, so the American people can examine whether they're viable and whether they can support them or not.'
"'I'm not worried about Mr. Trump today,' Graham said. 'I'm worried about the American homeland.'
Read Full Story Here.
  