
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Raymond Martinez of New Jersey to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. Mr. Martinez is currently the Chairman and Chief Administrator of the New Jersey Motor Vehicle Commission and a Member of the New Jersey State Planning Commission. He manages a State agency with over $1 billion in annual revenue and an operating budget of approximately $330 million. It is charged with the licensing of nearly 6 million drivers and the titling, registration, and inspection of over 6 million vehicles. He previously served as the New York State Commissioner of Motor Vehicles and Chairman of the Governor's Traffic Safety Committee as well as Deputy Chief of Staff and Special Counsel to the New York State Attorney General. Mr. Martinez has twice served on the Board of Directors of the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators. Earlier in his career he served as Deputy United States Chief of Protocol at the Department of State, Deputy Director of Scheduling and Advance for the First Lady and as a Special Assistant at the Department of Housing and Urban Development. Mr. Martinez earned a J.D. from St. John's University School of Law in New York and a B.A. from Long Island University's C.W. Post College, where he later served on the adjunct faculty in Public Administration.
Robert H. McMahon of Georgia to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, Logistics and Materiel Readiness. Mr. McMahon currently serves as President of Fickling Management Services, and as a member of the Board of Directors for State Bank and Trust, the Mercer National Engineering Advisory Board, and the Robins Air Force Base Museum of Aviation Foundation. Prior to his current position, Mr. McMahon served as the Director of C-17 Field Operations for the Boeing Company, and as President and CEO of the 21st Century Partnership. Mr. McMahon is a retired Air Force Major General, and is a graduate of the United States Air Force Academy, and the Air Force Institute of Technology. While on active duty, Mr. McMahon's assignments included: Commander, Warner Robins Air Logistics Center; Director of Logistics, Headquarters United States Air Force; Director of Logistics, Air Mobility Command; and Commander, 309th Maintenance Wing, Ogden Air Logistics Center.
  