
    (COLUMBIA) – Hillary Clinton received another surge in support in South Carolina today when five more key endorsements in the Grand Strand and Pee Dee regions were announced with key leaders calling Hillary the candidate with the right experience to make change a reality.
"She's the real deal. Hillary spent year's in public service, working on the same issues that are at the top of our list in South Carolina: health care, opportunity, education and good-paying jobs," Rep. Carl Anderson of Georgetown said. "Our country is ready for a change, but it takes experience to make change a reality. That's why I support Hillary."
Others agreed.
"Hillary's experience makes her the best choice for South Carolina, for the Grand Strand, for the Pee Dee and for the country. We have a lot of strong candidates in the race for President saying good things. But Hillary is the person with the experience to get those things done. We need a change and Hillary's the person to do it," Mayor Pro-Tem Brendon Barber of Georgetown said. "When you look at things, she has the experience to bring the global stability we need and sustain it."
Today's endorsements include the support of Rep. Carl Anderson of Georgetown, Mayor Pro-Tem Brendon Barber of Georgetown, Councilperson Macio Williams of Dillon County, Councilperson Helen Rudolph of Georgetown County and Councilperson W.B. Wilson of Williamsburg County.
"This is a surge for the campaign in the Pee Dee and Grand Strand," state Campaign Co-Chair and Aiken Councilperson Lessie Price said. "These aren't just names on paper or people at an event. These are members of the team who are going to be spreading Hillary's message of leadership and experience for change on a grassroots level."
Previous Grand Strand and Pee Dee endorsements for Hillary include Mayor Frank Willis of Florence (also co-chair of the national steering committee of Mayor's for Hillary), former State Senator Maggie Glover of Florence, national business woman Marva Small of Florence, civic leader and party activist Marguerite Willis of Florence, Horry County Democratic Women's Club President Sarah McCollum of Myrtle Beach, Grand Strand business leader and president of Wordsmith Incorporated Public Strategies Mary Eaddy, former Horry County Democratic Party Chair and two-term former City Councilperson Mary Jeffcoat of Myrtle Beach, Grand Strand area hotel and hospitality entrepreneur Dorothy Anderson and Grand Strand social activist Mary Riley.
  