
    "In 2008, Candidate Obama promised us a world of limitless hope. What we got instead is a world where hope has painful limits -- limits that make it harder to start a business, to grow a business, or to find a job. ... My plan is premised on the conviction that it is freedom that drives our economy -- that free people, creating free enterprises, is what creates good jobs with good wages. Government supports the job creators, but it cannot take their place." — Mitt Romney
After Nearly Four Years, Hispanics Are Suffering From Higher Unemployment And Greater Economic Struggles In The Obama Economy:
Hispanic Unemployment Has Remained Above 10 Percent For Every Month Since President Obama Took Office. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, Accessed 9/17/12)
•         Under President Obama, The Unemployment Rate Among Hispanic Teenagers Has Increased To 29 Percent. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, Accessed 9/17/12)
The Nation Has Nearly 2.5 Million Hispanic Workers Who Are Unemployed — An Increase Of 293,000 Unemployed Hispanics Since President Obama Took Office. (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, Accessed 9/17/12)
Pew Center: "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy" (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," Pew Research Center, 1/26/12)
•         Nearly 60% Of Hispanics Report That Someone In Their Household Was Out Of Work In The Past Year. "Large shares report that they or someone in their household has been out of work in the past year (59%); that their personal finances are in 'only fair' or "poor" shape (75%); that they canceled or delayed a major purchase in the past year (49%); or that they are underwater on their mortgage (28% of Latino homeowners)." (Paul Taylor, et al, "Hispanics Say They Have The Worst Of A Bad Economy," Pew Research Center, 1/26/12)
And Hispanics Are Struggling To Make Ends Meet — With Millions Of Hispanics Slipping Into Poverty And Earning Lower Wages:
Since President Obama Took Office, More Than 2 Million Hispanics Have Fallen Into Poverty. (U.S. Census Bureau Website, Accessed 9/17/12)
•         Under President Obama, The Nation Has More Than 13 Million Hispanics Living In Poverty. (U.S. Census Bureau Website, Accessed 9/17/12)
The Poverty Rate Among Hispanics — 25.3 Percent — Far Outpaces The Poverty Rate For The Total Population. (U.S. Census Bureau Website, Accessed 9/17/12)
•         "The Poverty Rate For Non-Hispanic Whites Stood At 12.8 Percent, While The Rates For Blacks And Hispanics Were Roughly Twice As High..." "The data found a wide racial discrepancy when it came to poverty. The poverty rate for non-Hispanic whites stood at 12.8 percent, while the rates for blacks and Hispanics were roughly twice as high, at 27.6 percent and 25.3 percent, respectively." (Peter Schroeder, "Census: Poverty Rate Remains Stuck At Its Highest Level Since 1993," The Hill, 9/12/12)
Nearly 30 Percent Of All Americans Living In Poverty Are Hispanic. (U.S. Census Bureau Website, Accessed 9/17/12)
According To Census Data, Hispanic Males "Are More Likely To Earn Low Wages." "Still, many of those employed are in lower-wage jobs, Simms said. Hispanic males, especially those with jobs in construction and the food-service industry, are more likely to earn low wages." (Rosa Ramirez, "Census Insights: Poverty Trends By Race," National Journal, 9/14/12)
  