
    Members of Congress, members of the Air Force Association, and your guests:
Let me first thank Joe and all of you for making an ex-Navy--[laughter]--a life member of the Air Force Association. Boy, that's really stretching things, to be that kind and thoughtful, and I am very appreciative.
I also am grateful for the opportunity to spend some time here and shake hands with some people I haven't met, get acquainted with those that are here, and to renew some acquaintances with those that I have known for a good many years.
I am most appreciative of the actions that have been taken by the Air Force Association, not because I am a member, because I guess I haven't gotten any voting privileges. [Laughter] But, nevertheless, I read with interest and admiration what the Air Force Association has done in some of the resolutions that you have passed, some of the recommendations that you have made.
We have got a tough job. We must be strong enough and we will be strong enough to make certain that the United States is second to none, period. Of course, that is, in my opinion, the best way to ensure that we keep the peace now and in the future.
We have some current problems, and we have some long-range ones. We have the current problem which this association, or the executive group, or whatever this distinguished group is called--[laughter]--you have taken some very forthright and, I think, commendable action in adopting a resolution urging the Congress to remove the arms embargo limitation as far as Turkey is concerned. I applaud your support.
All of you know the reasons why that was done. If we don't do it, we are going to weaken NATO. If we don't do it, we are going to very seriously injure our intelligence-gathering capability. If we don't do it, we will have no influence in trying to get an equitable settlement in Cyprus. So, I thank you, and I congratulate you for this help.
Secondly, the fact that the United States was strong and that it is our intention to remain strong gave us a very important opportunity to participate in keeping the momentum going for negotiations as far as the Middle East is concerned. Not that we actually negotiated the settlement, because the parties themselves did that, but the fact that the United States was respected, the fact that the United States had a major role in international affairs, gave us an opportunity to be a helpful participant in the negotiations between Egypt and Israel.
Now, I have scanned the other recommendations or actions taken by the Air Force Association, by all of you here. They are helpful. I would be less than honest if I didn't say that we are having trouble in the Congress in getting enough money to keep us as strong as we ought to be.
I, of course, seldom like to get in confrontations with my former colleagues-[laughter]--but after spending 12 years on the defense subcommittee on appropriations, I have some background on military weaponry, programs, policies, et cetera. I think without any question of a doubt, the actions that have been taken by the Congress so far are not good, and we ought to do something about it.
If you can grab some of your good friends around here--and I see a couple of good potential victims--[laughter]--whisper in their ears and bolster their determination, because we cannot afford to be number two. If we don't adequately authorize and appropriate for the Defense Department, we will be.
We have got a crunch coming in the very near future, as far as being able to convince the Soviet Union that we are negotiating from strength, if the Congress doesn't give us enough money to have adequate army, navy, air force, and marine programs. It is just that black and white.
We have to be strong enough to convince them that it is in our mutual interest to have a SALT II agreement. Now, if we are unsuccessful in this negotiation, then I will, under my oath of office, have to request that the Congress appropriate substantially more funds.
I would prefer having enough to have a mutually agreeable SALT II, but I have to be very honest and very frank with you that so far we need more help in the Congress, even for a SALT II agreement. And we will need a lot more help in the Congress if we don't get a SALT II agreement, because under no circumstances, as far as I am concerned, are we going to be number two, and I simply conclude with this observation and comment.
It is organizations and people like yourselves that make my job much easier. I know in the past Presidents have called upon all of you or your predecessors to do the same. They have thanked you, and I am grateful for your help and assistance.
We have got some tough days ahead, but as I look down the road and look over the horizon, it is my judgment that America, both at home and abroad, has a great opportunity to have better and better and better days, and all of us will benefit, and your help will be significantly beneficial in achieving that result.
Thank you very much.
  