
    Pool Reports by David Smith, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




September 24, 202109:15

WH in-town pool report #1/ Checking in
Greetings from the White House on a clear and sunny day.
According to the daily guidance, POTUS is due to deliver remarks on the Covid-19 response and vaccination program at 9.45am and holds a bilateral meeting with Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India, at 11am.
POTUS hosts the first in-person Quad Leaders Summit at 2pm and meets Suga Yoshihide, Prime Minister of Japan, at 4.10pm. He departs the Whtie House for Camp David at 6pm.



September 24, 202109:46

WH in-town pool report #2/ Pool gathers
Pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors ahead of POTUS's remarks on Covid-19 and vaccinations.



September 24, 202109:53

WH in-town pool report #3/ State dining room
Pool and other reporters are now seated in the State Dining Room where a presidential lectern is set up, facing an autocue and with six flags behind it. To the left of the lectern is the fireplace and Abraham Lincoln portrait.
POTUS's remarks will be livestreamed here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 24, 202109:58

WH in-town pool report #4/ Two minute warning 
We have a two minute warning for POTUS remarks.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 24, 202110:03

WH in-town pool report #5/ POTUS speaking now 
POTUS entered the State Dining Room at 9.58am wearing a dark suit, white shirt and blue and white patterned tie. He removed a black face mask as he approached the lectern.
POTUS said: "As I've said before, we have the tools to beat Covid, Covid-19, if we come together as a country..."
He referenced his xix-point plan and booster shots. "It's hard to acknowledge I'm over 65 but I'll be getting my booster shot." He said he is not sure when.
Livestream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 24, 202110:13

WH in-town pool report #6/ POTUS taking questions
POTUS finished his prepared remarks at 10.o7am and took questions, first about Haitians at the southern border.
He said it was "horrible to see" the treatment by border agents on horseback. "It's outrageous. I promise, those people will pay... There will be consequences."
POTUS is now defending the record of his administration so far.
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 24, 202110:27

WH in-town pool report #7/ POTUS finishes
POTUS took questions from three reporters. His last answer was about the Congressional negotiations over his agenda. "I think it's just going to take some time," he said. "This is a process and it's going to be up and down."
POTUS walked away from the lectern at 10.26am.



September 24, 202111:12

WH in-town pool report #8/ Pool gathers
Pool is lined up outside lower press ahead of POTUS's bilateral meeting with Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India, in the Oval Office.



September 24, 202111:24

WH in-town pool report #9/ Modi meeting
Pool entered the Oval Office at 11.18am. POTUS is sitting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is wearing a mask.
POTUS said: "Mr Prime Minister, we're going to continue to build on our strong partnership."
He made reference to Vice President Kamala Harris's Indian heritage. His remarks are being translated for Modi.
Meeting is ongoing.



September 24, 202111:44

WH in-town pool report #10/ No questions
Pool was led out of the Oval Office at 11.38am. POTUS did not respond to shouted questions about the debt ceiling and other matters but did joke to one journalist that the journalist's arm must be tired holding a boom mic.
More details to follow.



September 24, 202111:46

WH in-town pool report #11/ Attendance list at Modi meeting
From the White House:
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with His Excellency Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Indo-Pacific Affairs, NSCT.H. Donald Lu, Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian AffairsT.H. Sumona Guha, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for South Asia, NSC
India ManifestH.E. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic Of IndiaH.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External AffairsH.E. Ajit Doval, National Security AdvisorH.E. Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Foreign SecretaryH.E. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United StatesMr. Rudra Gaurav Shresth, Joint Secretary to the Prime MinisterMr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister



September 24, 202112:24

WH in-town pool report #12/ POTUS story about Captain George Biden in India
More detail from POTUS's meeting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Oval Office. Sitting before the fireplace, with Modi to his right, POTUS said:
"Welcome. I want to welcome my friend - and we've known each other for some time - back to the White House. And Mr.Prime Minister, we're going to continue to build on our strong partnership.
"When I showed the Prime Minister to his seat, I pointed out that seat is occupied almost every day by an Indian American. The Vice President's mother was from India: a scientist and a remarkable woman.
"As I think you know, Mr. Prime Minister, I've long believed that the U.S-India relationship can help us solve an awful lot of global challenges.
"In fact, back in 2006, I sent that hope out where I said that by 2020... India and the United States would be among the closest nations in the world to one another.
"And maybe I shouldn't – these are not part of my prepared remarks but when I was in Mumbai as vice president, I finished meeting with the equivalent of the chamber of commerce. And afterwards the Indian press asked me, do I have any relatives in India?"
POTUS smiled and Modi chuckled.
POTUS continued: "And I said I'm not sure but, when I was elected as a 29-year-old in kid in 1972, before I was sworn in, I got a letter from a person named Biden – last name – in Mumbai, from Mumbai. And I said, but I was never able to follow up.
"The next morning, I had a press conference going away, and the Indian press, some of these folks, said you have five Bidens in India. And although we never admitted it – jokingly – I've found out that there was a Captain George Biden who was a captain in the East India Tea Company in India."
POTUS turned to Modi and quipped: "That's hard for an Irishman to admit."
POTUS then said to the press: "I shouldn't be so casual with you all. I hope you understand the humour in it."
He continued: "The end result was he apparently stayed and married an Indian woman and I've never been able to track it down, so the whole purpose of this meeting is for him to help me figure out."
POTUS smiled and there was laughter from people in the room.
More to follow.



September 24, 202112:45

WH in-town pool report #13/ POTUS on US-India relations
More detail from POTUS's meeting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi in the Oval Office.
POTUS continued: "But all kidding aside, I think that the relationship between India and the United States, the largest democracies in the world, is destined to be stronger, closer and tighter, and I think it can benefit the whole world.
"And I think that's begun to come to pass and today we're launching a new chapter in the history of US-Indian ties and taking on some of the toughest challenges we face together, starting with a shared commitment to ending the Covid pandemic.
"The Prime Minister and I are going to be talking today about what more we can do to fight Covid-19, take on the climate challenges that the world face, and ensure stability in the Indo-Pacific, including with our own Quad partners.
"Of course our partnership is more than just what we do. It's about who we are. It's rooted in our shared responsibility to uphold democratic values, our joint commitment to diversity, and it's about family ties, including 4 million Indian-Americans who make the United States stronger every single day.
"As the world celebrates Mahatma Gandhi's birthday next week, we're all reminded that his message of nonviolence, respect, tolerance matters today maybe more than it ever has. So I'm looking forward to my discussion today with the Prime Minister, and thank you.
"Mr Prime Minister, the floor is yours."
Modi then spoke for longer than POTUS had. He began (via translation): "First of all Mr President, I would like to express my gratitude for this very warm welcome full of friendship, not only to me but to my delegation."
Later he remarked (via translation): "Mr President, you have talked, today spoken in detail about the Biden surname in India and in fact you had mentioned that to me earlier too. Well, after you mentioned it to me, I hunted for documents and today I have brought along some documents. Maybe we'll be able to take this matter forward and maybe those documents could be of use to you."
POTUS laughed and asked: "Are we related?"
Modi joked, "Yes!" and laughed.



September 24, 202113:38

WH in-town pool report #14/ Pool gathers
Pool has gathered in he East Room well ahead of the Quad Summit at 2pm.
Five desks are arranged in circular formation for POTUS, Secretary of State Antony Blinken and the Prime Ministers of Australia, India and Japan. There are flowers and rotating cameras on a round table in the middle.
There are additional desks and seats for each delegation and five sets of US, Australian, Indian and Japanese flags.



September 24, 202114:14

WH in-town pool report #15/ POTUS at Quad meeting
?POTUS entered the East Room at 2.09pm accompanied by the three Prime Ministers and Secretary Blinken. He sat down and spoke for about two minutes.
The White House sent the following:
Quad Leaders Summit meeting participants:
U.S. Delegation:The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Jake Sullivan, National Security AdvisorT.H. Kurt Campbell, Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, NSCT.H. Sumona Guha, Senior Director for South Asia, NSCT.H. Edgard Kagan, Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, NSCDr. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Director for Indo-Pacific Affairs, NSC
India Delegation:H.E. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of IndiaH.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External AffairsH.E. Ajit Doval, National Security AdvisorH.E. Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Foreign SecretaryH.E. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United StatesMs. Vani Rao, Joint Secretary, AmericasMr. Rudra Gaurav Shresth, Joint Secretary to the Prime MinisterMr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister
Australia Delegation:T.H. Scott Morrison MP, Prime Minister of AustraliaMs. Caroline Millar, Deputy Secretary, National Security and International Policy and Quad SherpaDr. John Kunkel, Chief of Staff to Prime MinisterH.E. Arthur Sinodinos, Ambassador of Australia to the United StatesMs. Michelle Chan, National Security Adviser and Senior Adviser (International) to the Prime MinisterMr. Marcus Lumb, Quad Sous Sherpa, Department of the Prime Minister and CabinetMr. Philip Gaetjens, Secretary, Department of Prime Minister and CabinetMr. Jimmy Kiploks, Senior Adviser (Defense & Home Affairs)
Japan Delegation:H.E. Suga Yoshihide, Prime Minister of JapanMr. Sakai Manabu, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Adachi Masashi, Special Adviser to the Prime MinisterMr. Akiba Takeo, Secretary General of the National Security SecretariatH.E. Tomita Koji, Ambassador of Japan to the United StatesMr. Yamada Shigeo, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Yamada Yoshiyuki, Director of the National Security Policy Division, Ministry of Foreign AffairsMr. Fujinuma Atsuyuki, Official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs



September 24, 202114:28

WH in-town pool report #16/ Quad meeting
Pool was ushered out of the Quad meeting at 2.20pm, after each of the leaders had made opening remarks. More details to follow.



September 24, 202114:38

WH in-town pool report #17/ Press briefing
The White House press briefing with Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas and Press Secretary Jen Psaki began at 2.35pm. Live stream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 24, 202114:46

WH in-town pool report #18/ POTUS remarks at Quad meeting
At the start of the Quad meeting, POTUS said:
"Let me begin by saying I'm honoured to welcome Prime Minister Morrison, Prime Minister Modi, Prime Minister Suga to the White House for the first in-person meeting of the Quad we've had.
"This group being of democratic partners who share a worldview and have a common vision for the future, coming together to take on key challenges of our age. From Covid to climate to emerging technologies, it embodies an approach I spoke of at the UN earlier this week.
"When we met six months ago, we made concrete commitments to advance our shared and positive agenda for a free and open Indo-Pacific. Today I'm proud to say that we're making excellent progress.
"Our vaccine initiative is on track to produce an additional one billion doses of vaccine in India to boost global supply. We're taking action on climate change with new partnership toward a zero emissions shipping.
"And today we're also launching a new Quad fellowship for students from each of our Quad countries to pursue advanced degrees in leading STEM programmes here in the United States. It represents an investment in the leaders, innovators and pioneers of tomorrow.
"In sum, we're four major democracies with a long history of cooperation. We know how to get things done and we are up to the challenge. And I'm looking forward to our discussion today and I thank you. Now I yield to my friend from India."



September 24, 202115:39

WH in-town pool report #19/ Press briefing ends
The White House press briefing ended at 3.36pm.



September 24, 202116:31

WH in-town pool report #20/ Quad meeting ends
From the White House:
'The Quad Leaders Summit concluded at 4:19 PM.'



September 24, 202116:36

WH in-town pool report #21/ Lunch lid
A lunch lid was called until 5.45pm.



September 24, 202117:41

WH in-town pool report #22/ Australian PM to gaggle
From the White House:
'Around 6:00 PM, Prime Minister Morrison of Australia will gaggle on Pebble Beach.'
(Pool will probably not be able to attend due to POTUS's departure at the same time.)



September 24, 202117:57

WH in-town pool report #23/ Pool gathers
Pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors ahead of POTUS's departure.



September 24, 202118:04

WH in-town pool report #24/ Pool disperses
POTUS's departure is delayed so pool has dispersed for now.



September 24, 202118:20

WH in-town pool report #25/ South lawn
Pool is gathered on the south lawn driveway awaiting POTUS's departure. Marine One is in place.



September 24, 202118:30

WH in-town pool report #26/ POTUS departs and lid
POTUS and FLOTUS walked from the south portico at 6.20pm. POTUS hesitated then walked over and answered a few questions but was very difficult to hear.
It sounded like he was asked if he's surprised that moderates are the hold ups and replied we'll talk about it when we get it through. Your pooler will seek a more audible recording.
Marine One lifted off at 6.25pm and a travel/ photo lid was called.



September 24, 202118:52

WH in-town pool report #27/ POTUS quotations on departure
On the south lawn a reporter asked: "Do you have any greater clarity on what the moderates want?"
POTUS replied: "Yeah, but I'm negotiating with them, not you guys."
The next question was about moderates being the hold-ip on getting his economic agenda through.
POTUS said: "Let's just talk about it when I get it through."
The final question was about Speaker Nancy Pelosi.
POTUS said: "Yesh, I spoke with the Speaker today."
Then he added, "It's good to see you guys," and headed for Marine One,



September 24, 202119:30

WH in-town pool report #28/ POTUS arrives at Camp David
? From the White House:
'Marine One was wheels down at Camp David at 6:58 PM.'




 
Pool Reports below by Lalit K. Jha, Press Trust of India 



Sent:
Reports:




September 24, 202110:07

Foreign Pool India bilat # 1
Hi,
Good Morning,
I would be your foreign pooler for the India bilat portion of the day's activities today. My colleague Esther Oh from NHK Japan broadcasting would be the foreign pooler for the Quad Summit and the rest of the day.
The bilateral meeting is scheduled for 11 am at Oval.
Below are some background information
This is the first in-person meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and POTUS.
After last year's November elections, the two leaders have spoken over phone thrice: November 17, 2021; February 8, 2021 and April 26, 2021.
PM Modi and POTUS have attended the First Quad Leader's Virtual Summit on March 12, and the Leaders Summit on Climate on April 22, 2021.
Visit of Senior Biden Administration officials to India
1. Defense Secretary Austin Lloyd to New Delhi: March 19-21
2. Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry to New Delhi: April 6 to 8 and again September 11 to 14.
3. Secretary of State, Tony Blinken to New Delhi July 27-28.
4.Visit of Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging Technology Anne Neuberger from August 31 to September 1
5. You must have seen news reports of CIA Director Bill Burns travel to India after the withdrawal of US forces from Afghanistan,
Visit of senior Indian officials to the US
1. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar to Washington DC from May 26 to 29,
2 Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla to Washington DC from September 1 to 3.
I found on the website of the Indian Embassy a detailed fact sheet on India US relationship. Bilateral_brief_on_website_July 4-FINAL_25_08.pdf (indianembassyusa.gov.in) The 13-page document says it was last updated in July.
Some key members of the travelling Indian delegation are
1. External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar
2. National Security Advisor Ajit K Doval
3. Foreign Secretary: Harsh Vardhan Shringla
4. India's Ambassador to the US: Taranjit Singh Sindhu
In case you missed it. This is what a senior administration official told reporters during a conference call yesterday.
"President Biden is looking forward to his separate bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi in the Oval Office on Friday morning ahead of the Quad summit.
President Biden has spoken with Prime Minister Modi on the phone a number of times and has been in virtual summits, but this is their first in-person meeting and will cover a number of priority issues that India is really front and center of, including pandemic response, their response to climate change. Will talk about technology issues, economic cooperation and trade, as well as Afghanistan and new areas of cooperation that both governments have been discussing."
In June 2016, when Prime Minister Modi addressed the joint session of the Congress, it was presided over by POTUS, then as the VPOTUS. He also hosted the prime minister for lunch at the State Department on October 1, 2014. This was Modi's first trip to the US as India's Prime Minister.
As Prime Minister, this is his seventh visit to the US. The previous ones being September 2014; September 2015; March 31–April 1, 2016; June 2016; June 2017 and September 2019.
Please see PM Modi's statement before his departure for the US. PM's Departure Statement ahead of his visit to USA | Prime Minister of India (pmindia.gov.in). The website has more details and latest updates about his US visit and his meetings.
Below is an interview that POTUS then as Senator Biden had given to the Indian Abroad newspaper in December 2006.
'In 2020, India-US will be two closest nations' (rediff.com) "My dream is that in 2020 the two closest nations in the world will be India and the United States. If that occurs, the world will be safer," he then said.
This is the oped-written by candidate Biden last year in India West newspaper: A More Prosperous Future for the Indian American Community: Op Ed by Vice President Biden for India-West | Blogs/Opinions | indiawest.com
Feel free to reach out to me with any questions or clarifications.



September 24, 202111:05

Foreign Pool Report India #2
The motorcade of PM Modi pulled into the West Wing at 11:02 am. PM walked inside.
Now headed to Oval for pool spray.



September 24, 202112:13

Foreign Pool Report India # 3
Hi,
Your Pooler entered the Oval at 11:15 am.
The two leaders were wearing masks when your pooler entered the room.
POTUS took off his mask when he started speaking. PM Modi also took out his mask. POTUS put on the mask back when PM Modi was speaking,
The leaders spoke for about 19 minutes. They did not take any questions
While the POTUS spoke first, I will start with PM Modi's remarks. PM Modi spoke in Hindi and was interpreted in English by an Indian official. As usual please check against official transcripts.
First of all, Mr. President, I would like to express my gratitude for this very warm welcome full of friendship, not only to me but to my delegation. Mr President, in 2016, and even before that in 2014 we had an opportunity to have discussions in detail.
And at that time, Mr. President, you had laid out a vision for India US relationship in great detail. And really, that was a vision that was inspirational. And today, Mr. President, as President, you are making all efforts and taking initiatives to implement that vision.
Mr President, you have talked today spoken in detail about the Biden surname in India and in fact you had mentioned that to me earlier too. Well, after you mentioned that to me, I looked for documents. Today I have brought along a set of documents, maybe we'll be able to take this matter market forward, and maybe those documents could be of use to you., PM Modi said.
POTUS smiled and laughed.
Was I related, POTUS asked.
PM Modi said: Yes.
Coming back to the bilateral summit, PM Modi said Mr President, I firmly believe back in our summit meeting today, what I see is that this is the third decade of the 21st century, this is the first year of the third decade. And I see that when I look at the entire decade. I find that under your leadership the seeds have been sown for the Indo US relations to expand, and for all democratic countries in the world, this is going to be a transformative period. I can see that very clearly.
Describing it as a transformative period in Indo US relations, PM Modi said: When I talk about conditions, talking about democratic predictions democratic values, traditions to which both countries are committed, I find that importance of these traditions will only increase further.
In a similar vein, Mr. President, you mentioned, there are more than 4 million Indian Americans who are participating in the journey of progress of America. When I look at the importance of this decade, and the role that is going to be played by this talent of the Indian Americans, I find that the people to people talent will play a greater role and Indian talent will be a full partner in this relationship. And I see that your contribution is going to be very important in this.
Mr President, the most important driving force in the world today, would be that of technology and the technology that is going to be for the service and for the use of humanity. I find that opportunities for this are going to be tremendous.
Similarly, Mr. President, between India and the United States trade will continue to assume importance, and we find that the trade between our two countries are actually complimentary. There are things that you have and there are things that we have, and then we in fact complement each other. I find that the area of trade during this decade, that is also going to be tremendously important.
Mr President, you just mentioned that on the second of October we will be celebrating the birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Mahatma Gandhi always used to talk about the principle of trusteeship, trusteeship of the planet. And , from that point of view is also going to be important as this principle of trusteeship. It means that the planet that we have, we have to bequeath it to the following generations, and this sentiment of trusteeship is going to assume more and more importance globally, but also between the relations between India and the United States, and it is these ideals that Padma Gandhi espoused when he talked about transition of the planet, and where the responsibility of global citizens is only going to go up.
Mr President, you mentioned very important issues and after assuming charge as President of the United State you have taken very unique initiatives, whether that be COVID-19, climate change, or even QUAD.
After taking this initiative, you have made and deployed great efforts to bring them to implement your mission. Today we have this opportunity to discuss all these issues in great detail, how, and after the our discussions, we will look towards how we can work further together, not only for our respective countries, but for the entire world, how we can take positive action, and I am absolutely convinced that under your leadership, whatever we do, it will be extremely relevant for the entire world..
Below information from the White House:
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with His Excellency Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for Indo-Pacific Affairs, NSCT.H. Donald Lu, Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian AffairsT.H. Sumona Guha, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for South Asia, NSC
India ManifestH.E. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic Of IndiaH.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External AffairsH.E. Ajit Doval, National Security AdvisorH.E. Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Foreign SecretaryH.E. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United StatesMr. Rudra Gaurav Shresth, Joint Secretary to the Prime MinisterMr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister



September 24, 202112:31

Foreign Pool Report India # 4
Hi,
As usual please check against official transcripts
Welcoming PM Modi to the Oval Office, POTUS said he showed the Prime Minister to his seat and I pointed out that this seat is occupied almost every day by an Indian American.
Vice President's mother was an Indian, scientist and a remarkable woman, he said.
Mr Prime Minister I've long believed that the US, India relationship can help us solve global challenges, he said.
POTUS said that in 2006 he said that by 2020, India and the United States would be the closest nations in the world. (the first pool report had a link to that interview)
POTUS then went off script and narrated the story his visit to India as Vice President when he came to know about a Biden family living there.
Thereafter POTUS I think that the relationship between India and the United States, the largest democracies in the world, is destined to be stronger, closer and tighter, and I believe it can benefit the whole world.
POTUS said they are launching a new chapter in history of India US ties, taking on some of the toughest challenges we face together, starting with a shared commitment.
POTUS said Prime Minister and I have will be talking today about what more we can do to fight COVID-19, take on the climate challenges that the world face, and ensure stability in the Indo Pacific, including with our partners.
Of course our partnership is more than just what we do. It's about who we are in our. Its about our shared responsibility to uphold democratic values, our joint commitment to diversity, and it's about family ties, including 4 million Indian Americans make the United States stronger every single day.
The world celebrates Mahatma Gandhi's birthday next week. We're all reminded that his message of non-violence, respect, tolerance, matters today maybe more than ever.




 
Pool Reports below by Esther Oh, NHK Japan Broadcasting 



Sent:
Reports:




September 24, 202112:57

Foreign Pool Report Quad #1-Quad Background
Hi,
I'm Esther Oh with NHK Japan Broadcasting and I'll be your foreign pooler for the Quad Summit and the rest of today's activities.
Here's some background information on the first in-person Quad Summit that you might find useful.
Todays' summit
According to sources and official announcements, today's summit will touch upon a variety of subjects like 5G technology, climate change, critical infrastructure, supply chains and regional security. Earlier today, President Biden mentioned that Afghanistan will be one of the topics of discussion.
Prior to leaving Japan to attend the Quad Summit, Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga told reporters that the Quad meeting will seek a path to a free and open Indo-Pacific through discussions on important issues including coronavirus vaccines, new technologies, and climate change. Suga said they also intend to discuss responses to the Taliban's takeover of Afghanistan and North Korea's ballistic missile launches.
A senior administration official said during yesterday's press call that there will be an announcement on the launch of a new working group on space. A source familiar with planning of today's Quad Summit stressed that although China may come up during the talks, the Quad "stands for something and not against something; it is not targeting any one country."
In regards to concerns about the impact that the formation of AUKUS might have on the Quad given their overlapping objectives, a senior administration official said that the two partnerships have completely separate initiatives and the Quad does not have a military or security dimension to it.
The leaders are expected to each give brief remarks at the top of the pool spray and they are also scheduled to meet Vice President Harris at 4:45 PM in the Vice President's Ceremonial Office.
Quad historyThe Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, also known as the Quad, was first initiated in 2007 by then Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, with the goal of peace and security in the region. The same year, the Quad nations plus Singapore participated in an expanded version of the Malabar naval exercises in the Bay of Bengal, but the group soon disbanded when Australia withdrew from formal discussions in 2008.
The Quad was revived a decade later under the Trump administration in 2017. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi scoffed at the Quad alliance in 2018, saying it was "like sea foam in the Pacific or Indian Ocean" and that although the partnership may get some attention, "it will soon dissipate". Despite criticism from China, the Quad held its first foreign ministerial meeting in New York on September 26, 2019. According to AP, Wang described the Quad in 2020 as the "Indo-Pacific NATO".
A significant recent development in the partnership was the Biden administration elevating the Quad from a foreign ministerial level to a summit level. The first Quad Summit took place virtually on March 12, with the four leaders discussing various issues, including COVID-19, climate change and security challenges like North Korea's provocations. After the first meeting, the Quad announced the launch of three senior-level working groups: the Quad Vaccine Experts Group, the Quad Climate Working Group and the Quad Critical and Emerging Technology Working Group.



September 24, 202114:36

Foreign Pool Report Quad #2-Quad Summit
Prior to the arrival of the Quad leaders, the US pool was standing in one corner of the East Room with the Australian press. An Australian reporter behind your foreign pooler joked that this corner must be the AUKUS side. In the other corner of the room stood the Indian and Japanese press. Each leader, as well as Secretary Blinken, had his own desk that was arranged in a circle. Behind each leader were four flags in the following order: (from left to right) US, Australia, India and Japan. Jake Sullivan entered the room at 2:00 PM and shook hands with the Indian delegation before taking his seat next to Kurt Campbell. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo sat at the other table behind Biden.
The Quad leaders walked into the room at 2:09.
President Biden spoke first, welcoming the three leaders for the first in-person meeting of the Quad. He said that their vaccine initiative was on track and he also announced a new STEM fellowship for students in each of the four countries.
Indian Minister Modi then spoke next, thanking Biden for his initiative to organize the "historic first-ever Quad Summit". He noted that "our four countries came together for the first time in 2004 to extend support to the Indo-Pacific region". He stressed that the Quad vaccine initiative will greatly help countries in the Indo-Pacific region and based on "shared democratic values, the Quad has decided to move forward with positive thinking".
Following Prime Minister Modi was Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Morrison said, "We believe in a free and open Indo-Pacific because that is what delivers a prosperous region. The Quad is about demonstrating how democracies such as ours, as you said Mr. President, can get things done." He also added that so much already has been accomplished since the first virtual meeting six months ago.
Last, but not least, was Japanese Prime Minister Suga. Like the other three leaders, he stressed the importance of the first ever in-person Quad Summit, saying "this event demonstrates strong solidarity between our four nations and an unwavering commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific". He thanked President Biden for the US lifting important restrictions of Japanese food products from Fukushima prefecture.
As always, please check against official transcripts.
Pool was escorted out at 2:19 PM.
Here is the list of participants from each side:
U.S. Delegation:
The PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Gina Raimondo, Secretary of CommerceT.H. Jake Sullivan, National Security AdvisorT.H. Kurt Campbell, Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific, NSCT.H. Sumona Guha, Senior Director for South Asia, NSCT.H. Edgard Kagan, Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, NSCDr. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Director for Indo-Pacific Affairs, NSC
India Delegation:H.E. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of IndiaH.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External AffairsH.E. Ajit Doval, National Security AdvisorH.E. Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Foreign SecretaryH.E. Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United StatesMs. Vani Rao, Joint Secretary, AmericasMr. Rudra Gaurav Shresth, Joint Secretary to the Prime MinisterMr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister
Australia Delegation:T.H. Scott Morrison MP, Prime Minister of AustraliaMs. Caroline Millar, Deputy Secretary, National Security and International Policy and Quad SherpaDr. John Kunkel, Chief of Staff to Prime MinisterH.E. Arthur Sinodinos, Ambassador of Australia to the United StatesMs. Michelle Chan, National Security Adviser and Senior Adviser (International) to the Prime MinisterMr. Marcus Lumb, Quad Sous Sherpa, Department of the Prime Minister and CabinetMr. Philip Gaetjens, Secretary, Department of Prime Minister and CabinetMr. Jimmy Kiploks, Senior Adviser (Defense & Home Affairs)
Japan Delegation:H.E. Suga Yoshihide, Prime Minister of JapanMr. Sakai Manabu, Deputy Chief Cabinet SecretaryMr. Adachi Masashi, Special Adviser to the Prime MinisterMr. Akiba Takeo, Secretary General of the National Security SecretariatH.E. Tomita Koji, Ambassador of Japan to the United StatesMr. Yamada Shigeo, Senior Deputy Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Yamada Yoshiyuki, Director of the National Security Policy Division, Ministry of Foreign AffairsMr. Fujinuma Atsuyuki, Official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs



September 24, 202114:53

Foreign Pool Report Quad #3-Remarks by Foreign Leaders
Here are the remarks made by the three foreign leaders. Again, please check against the official transcript.
PM Modi (as interpreted):
President Biden, Prime Minister Morrison, Prime Minister Suga. I thank President Biden for his initiative to organize this historic first ever in-person Quad Summit. Our four countries came together for the first time in 2004 to extend support to the Indo-Pacific Region. Today, when the world is grappling with the COVID-19 pandemic, we are meeting once again as Quad and working in the interest of humanity. (inaudible) A Quad vaccine initiative will greatly help countries in the Indo-Pacific region. Based on shared democratic values, Quad has decided to move forward with positive thinking and a positive approach. It gives me great pleasure to discuss with my friends wide ranging topics from supply chains to global security, from climate action to COVID response, to cooperation in the field of technology. I am – a Quad, in a sense, will play the role of a force for global good. I'm confident that our cooperation, under Quad, will ensure prosperity and peace in the Indo Pacific and in the world. Thank you.
PM Morrison: 
Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Thank you, Mr President. It is a great honor to be here with you, here in this magnificent place, and I thank you for your leadership and bringing us together in person this time and to join our great friends: Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Suga and Secretary Blinken, it's good to be here with you also. We liberal democracies that believe in world order that favors freedom and we believe in a free and open Indo-Pacific because we know that's what delivers a strong, stable, and prosperous region. So our citizens [inaudible] can realize their hopes and dreams for their futures in a liberal and free society. The Quad is about demonstrating how democracies such as ours, as you said, Mr. President, can get things done. [Inaudible] with the big challenges that we face in a very complex and changing world. And there is no part of the world that is more dynamic than the Indo Pacific at this time, a region that has extraordinary opportunity, wide diversity, great wealth but many challenges that must be overcome. And we see the role of our nations. We see our home in the Indo Pacific is the place that we wish to focus on to ensure that our peoples can realize everything they would have for themselves. So as we gather here together, again, as a Quad in person for the first time in just six months from our last meeting, so much has already been accomplished and we come together with great hope for what's ahead.
670 million, at least, safe and effective doses of vaccines already out there. A billion is our goal, Mr. President, and we will add more to that today using our national strengths collectively to manufacture and distribute these vaccines to have the doses, but also to ensure they go that last mile to ensure they are administered in all parts of the region, working together on low emissions technologies that will indeed change the world, and take the world to a net zero economy, a new energy economy. We're working to make cyberspace and emerging and critical technologies trusted and secure in open societies, solving problems, and addressing the supply chain challenges that in many ways hold the keys to our security and our prosperity and our environment in the 21st century.
So we stand here together in the Indo Pacific region, a region that we wish to be always free from coercion, where the sovereign rights of all nations are respected, and where disputes are settled peacefully and accordance with international law. We come together in collective strength with mutual respect, transparently and importantly as one. So thank you again, Mr. President, for joining us together as Quad leaders at this meeting. On behalf of the Australian people can I thank all of the leaders of the Quad who share this great forum for their leadership in our region. I'm in no doubt that together our four nations multiply many times over the forces of hope for a free, open and inclusive Indo-Pacific. And with that I'm delighted to hand over to my dear friend the Prime Minister of Japan, Prime Minister Suga.
PM Suga (as interpreted):
Joe, Prime Minister Modi, [inaudible] it's a great pleasure to see you again. Under Joe's leadership, as promised in March, we are here for the first ever in-person Quad Summit.
This event demonstrates the strong solidarity between our four nations and our unwavering commitment to the common vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific. The Quad is an extremely significant initiative by four countries who share fundamental values, cooperating for the cause of realizing a free and open international order based on the rule of law in the Indo-Pacific. To date, the Quad has been promoting practical cooperation in extensive areas to deal with regional challenges, including COVID-19.
At this summit, I hope we can take stock of concrete progress achieved so far and discuss ways to further expand the Quad cooperation in new areas, such as infrastructure, and clean energy, and to promote people to people exchange in science and technology. I'm sure that we would be able to have an extremely fruitful meeting. Further, the lifting of import restrictions by the United States against Japanese food products, including rice, vegetable, and other produces from Fukushima Prefecture, which was a request I made to Joe in April, is a major step in supporting the recovery from the earthquake and tsunami and we are most appreciative. Thank you.



September 24, 202115:49

Foreign Pool Report #4-Background on Japanese Prime Minister Suga 
Ahead of outgoing Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga's meeting with President Biden at 4:10 PM, here is some background information on him. The meeting of the two leaders in the Red Room will remain closed press.
Suga-Biden meeting
This is Suga's second time meeting President Biden at the White House following his first summit with the President on April 16, becoming the first foreign leader to meet Biden in person. During their first summit, the two leaders discussed a number of topics surrounding the Indo-Pacific, including concerns over China's activities in the South China Sea.
In today's meeting, President Biden is expected to thank Suga for his partnership during his time as prime minister. According to a senior administration official during yesterday's press call, Dr. Jill Biden will be joining for a part of the meeting to thank the outgoing Prime Minister for hosting her during the Olympics. The official also stated that the Prime Minister wants to discuss the recent efforts by countries to potentially join the CPTPP.
In terms of his schedule, Suga left Haneda Airport shortly after 4 PM local time on Thursday and arrived in Washington, DC yesterday afternoon. He held a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Modi in the evening.
Background on Suga
Yoshihide Suga was born on December 6, 1948 to a strawberry farmer and a schoolteacher in a rural countryside in Akita prefecture. A sports enthusiast, he was a member of his high school baseball team and served as vice-captain of Hosei University's karate team.
He was appointed Chief Cabinet Secretary in the second Abe cabinet in 2012 and he served in that position until 2020, becoming the country's longest serving chief cabinet secretary. Suga is Japan's 99th prime minister and the head of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDP). He has been in this role since September 16, 2020 following the resignation of his predecessor Shinzo Abe, who left his position citing health issues.
On May 1, 2019, the day on which Emperor Naruhito ascended the throne as the 126th Emperor, Suga publicly unveiled the name of the country's new imperial era, 'Reiwa' (meaning 'beautiful harmony'). With this announcement, he earned the nickname 'Uncle Reiwa'.
Since last year, his party has received significant criticism from the public due to the administration's response to combatting COVID-19. Suga also received backlash for his decision to hold the Tokyo Olympics amid the country's slow vaccine rollout. Japan's Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Yasutoshi Nishimura, who is in charge of COVID-19 measures, told NHK that about 60 percent of the population is expected to be fully vaccinated by the end of the month. As of last month, Suga's cabinet approval rating reported by NHK stands at 29 percent.
Early this month, Suga announced that he will not be seeking reelection because he could not deal with the virus while campaigning. The LDP leadership election is scheduled for September 29. The results of the election will determine the country's next prime minister.
In a recent interview with Bloomberg this month, Suga said that China's military power could present a risk to Japan's peace and prosperity and he added that Japan should strengthen its alliance with the US to bolster deterrence. (https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2021-09-22/china-military-rise-could-threaten-japan-economy-pm-suga-warns?sref=4jjyJIRk)



September 24, 202116:26

Foreign Pool Report #5–Quad meeting concludes 
Per the White House:
The Quad Leaders Summit concluded at 4:19 PM.



September 24, 202118:57

Foreign Pool Report #6-Australian PM Morrison gaggle
?Australian Prime Minister Morrison came out to Pebble Beach at 6:07.
He thanked President Biden for bringing leaders together. He said that he had the opportunity to speak with Prime Minister Modi and Prime Minister Suga, and he thanked Suga for "being a tremendous leader of his country". He said Suga joked with him about the Olympics, adding that "Japan won a lot of a gold judo medals during the Olympics but Australia didn't too bad either".
Some quotes on what the Quad leaders talked about:
-On COVID: "It's not just about getting the vaccines-- it's about getting them in arms. And the programs we're running together are helping those vaccines that have been distributed, being administered—-the training, the planning, the support that's needed—-to get particularly in developing countries, these vaccines in arms."
-On Afghanistan: " Our discussions around security began with Afghanistan, and particularly focusing on how we can continue to help people who wish to leave Afghanistan, and become part of our humanitarian programs and holding the Taliban to account to ensure that they can leave safely...andensuring that we keep the pressure on the Taliban in Afghanistan, to live up to the commitments that they've made."
-On climate: "More broadly, when it comes to climate, today there was a real sense of resolve, and not just about the 'if' question. Of course is the answer to that question, but the how and how we can support the particularly developing countries within the Indo-Pacific to get access to the clean energy technology that enables them to transition their economies, just like Australia is seeking to transition our economy. An important initiative for a clean energy supply chain summit to be held next year in Australia to put together a roadmap over the next 12 months that could see how we can combine the best scientific knowledge, industry knowledge and academics coming together to ensure we can transfer our energy technology, clean energy technology, supply chains that support it to transform the economies of our region.
After his remarks, Morrison took some question from reporters. Your foreign pooler asked for his response on concerns of the Quad inevitably being placed on the back burner because of AUKUS and the Quad's main overlapping objective of maintaining a free and open Indo-Pacific.
His answer: "They're mutually reinforcing. And that's the whole point of the Quad and AUKUS. They're not there to replace anything but to add to it. I want to stress this very clearly that the work that we are doing as a Quad particularly recognizes and respects ASEAN. ASEAN is a huge, committed relationship that we each have individually, and we really do seek to see the world, and particularly the region, through the ASEAN vision. And so we look forward to continuing to work with those partners."
The Prime Minister was also asked about his relationship with former President Trump and President Biden to which he replied, "I've enjoyed both great relationships with both the presidents I've worked with".
When asked what his message was to China, Morrison replied, "The Quad is a partner. The Quad is a partner whether it be for China or any other country that is in the Indo Pacific region. We're there to make the region stronger, more prosperous, more stable. It's a positive initiative designed to lift the well being of the people did the Indo-Pacific."
He left Pebble Beach at 6:25 PM. That's all from your foreign pooler and please enjoy what's left of your Friday evening!




  