
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 28
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled from Martha's Vineyard, MA, to East Hampton, NY.
August 29
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Bridgehampton, NY.
August 30
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Syracuse, NY, and in the afternoon, they traveled to Skaneateles, NY.
August 31
In the evening, the President visited Democratic Party fundraiser Terence McAuliffe's mother, Millie, at the St. Camillus Nursing Home.
The President had separate telephone conversations with Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, concerning her upcoming trip to the Middle East, and with Prime Minister Antonio Guterres of Portugal, concerning the elections in East Timor.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Norfolk, VA, on September 6.
September 1
The President announced his intention to appoint Stanislaus A. Blejwas, Susan Estrich, Benjamin Meed, and Menachem Z. Rosensaft as members of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint John H. Dalton, Peter J. Kadzik, and Martha Polan Landsman as members of the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President declared a major disaster in California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe fires on August 24 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Dennis beginning on August 29 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on August 20-21.
The President declared a major disaster in Texas and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by extreme fire hazards on August 1 and continuing.
The White House announced that the President has named Mark F. Lindsay as Assistant to the President for Management and Administration and Bradley J. Kiley as Deputy Assistant to the President for Management and Administration.
The White House announced that the President will meet with President Eduard Shevardnadze of the Republic of Georgia at the White House on September 23.
September 2
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Auburn, NY, and later returned to Skaneateles, NY.
The White House announced that the President and Hillary Clinton have entered into a contract to purchase a home in Chappaqua, NY.
September 3
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Camp David, MD.
The White House announced that the President announced the appointment of Robert A. Bradtke as Executive Secretary of the National Security Council.
The White House announced that the President announced the appointment of Alfred H. Moses as Special Presidential Emissary for Cyprus.
  