
    "This is not what a real recovery looks like. And as you just mentioned from the survey of businesses and manufacturers, they see more clouds on the horizon. It is because of the president's failed policies. Mitt Romney and I are proposing very specific pro-growth solutions to get real growth back in this economy."  — Paul Ryan
"Your World With Neil Cavuto"
FOX News
September 27, 2012
Click Here To Watch Paul Ryan
PAUL RYAN: "We have been seeing slow growth. Now we see that it is even slower. Look, a downward revision from 1.7 to 1.3, that is a pretty big drop. I mean the drop in durable goods is just an enormous drop. Look, Neil, this is not what a real recovery looks like. And as you just mentioned from the survey of businesses and manufacturers, they see more clouds on the horizon. It is because of the president's failed policies. Mitt Romney and I are proposing very specific pro-growth solutions to get real growth back in this economy. There is no reason why we can't get this economy growing at its potential and get people back to work. That's why we're proposing pro-growth tax reforms and lower tax rates across the board. That gives us more take home pay, that gets businesses to hire because they're keeping more of what they earn, and regulatory reform, which is a cloud of uncertainty, and hidden tax on businesses. We've offered a specific energy policy, to unleash American energy, to be energy independent in North America by 2020, job training reform, more trade agreements to promote trade and get the fiscal house in order. We've put out specific plans on how to prevent a debt crisis, how to reform entitlements, how to cut spending, how to get growth, how to grow the economy and get people back to work. That is the choice we are offering the country. We can either do four more years of these kinds of policies which are producing these pitiful results or we can get back to real growth, and get people back to work. Get back to that society of upward mobility. That is what Mitt Romney and I are offering and we have the specific solutions that we are giving the American people. And in the final analysis, I think they are going to like this choice they have."
  