
    "One of the things that I will do as president is, we are going to bring a reckoning to the CDC, the NIH, the FDA, all these agencies that were responsible for really bad policies."
Tallahassee, FL - Ron DeSantis today joined Eric Bolling on Newsmax's The Balance. The highlights are below.

Watch the full interview HERE.
On putting an end to COVID authoritarianism in Florida as Governor:
We have implemented in Florida permanent protections against all those mandates. They can't force you to wear a mask. They can't make your kid wear a mask in school, they can't force you to take these shots. They can't do any of the things that we saw that were offensive, obviously, as governor, you know, I pushed back on all that. But in the future, and what people told me when we enacted those protections is 'Oh, that's not going to happen, those days are over'. But it is happening again. You have a school district in Maryland that just required N-95 masks on schoolchildren, you have Biden wearing masks, he's talking about producing another rushed vaccine that he's going to put money behind, taxpayer money behind. Who knows how they're going to be able to do that. I think they're in court now, they want to be able to reimpose mask mandates on commercial air travel. So they are going to do whatever they can get away with, they are going to use that to their advantage however they can.
On what he would do to stop COVID mandates as President:
One of the things that I will do as president is, we are going to bring a reckoning to the CDC, the NIH, the FDA, all these agencies that were responsible for really bad policies, and lying to the American people about so many different things. Because if you don't have that reckoning, they are going to continue to try to do it again. So we've got to make it clear that what they did was wrong. What they're trying to do now in its infant stages is wrong and we can't let this happen to our country ever again... I think what's happened with agencies like the CDC, they become politicized. They're more interested in enforcing the narrative than in following evidence-based medicine. What you need, you need people like Bhattacharya from Stanford, you need people like Joe Ladapo, our Surgeon General here in Florida, who called this for what it is from day one. Those are the people that were actually following the science. The bureaucrats in the CDC were following the narrative-- And also on the FDA, the FDA is basically a rubber stamp for Big Pharma. How do you justify authorizing an emergency use shot, a COVID shot for six-month-old babies? There was no evidence that it's appropriate to jab a six-month-old baby and they want to do it again and again.
On why he didn't meet with President Biden following Hurricane Idalia:
I was in the communities that were the hardest hit by the storm. And Joe Biden didn't go to those areas, I think correctly, because the whole security apparatus would have shut down the recovery. So I was exactly where I needed to be. We were in Keaton Beach, where the eye of the storm came on shore. And then we were in Horseshoe Beach, which is probably the hardest hit area, you know, they had five, six feet of storm surge, there were people's homes that were washed away entirely. And so you know, that's a really difficult thing to have happen. Fortunately, there were no fatalities, but there was an awful lot of damage. The community was really reeling, everyone was pulling together. But I was exactly where I needed to be to help the people of my state that were the hardest hit. That's not playing politics. That's called being a leader and doing what's right.
  