
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced Illinois first responders supporting the Mayor for President. State Representative Tim Schmitz will chair Illinois Firefighters for Rudy. Schmitz currently serves as an on-call firefighter with the Batavia Fire Department. He was also announced last week as National Co-Chair of Firefighters for Rudy. Leading Law Enforcement for Rudy will be Joseph Birkett, who serves as the DuPage County State's Attorney.
"Rudy's record as a prosecutor and as Mayor proves he is the one candidate who is serious about fighting crime and keeping our communities safe," said Birkett. "He got real results both in the courtroom and in New York City, even when others have said it couldn't be done."
"Joe and Tim are two of the most respected and dedicated public officials in Illinois," said Giuliani's Illinois Campaign Chairman Tom Cross. "I could not be more excited to have their assistance in getting Rudy Giuliani elected to be our next President."
Illinois Firefighters for Rudy Chair:
Tim Schmitz, Batavia Tim has served as a State Representative for the 49th district since first being elected in 1998. In 2002, that service was recognized by his peers when he was elected an Assistant Minority Leader by his House Republican colleagues. Tim continues his service as an on-call firefighter and emergency medical technician with the Batavia Fire Department, a position he has held since 1984. In 2005, Schmitz was recognized as the Batavia Fire Department Firefighter of the Year.
Illinois Law Enforcement for Rudy Chair:
Joseph Birkett, Wheaton Joe first served as an Assistant State's Attorney in DuPage County in October 1981 before becoming the county's State's Attorney. In 1985, he was promoted to Chief of the Major Crimes Unit, prosecuting drug delivery cases. The next year Joe was named Deputy Chief of the Criminal Division. He served from 1991 until October of 1996 as the Chief of the Criminal Division, supervising more than fifty prosecutors, ten investigators, victim/witness advocates, law clerks and paralegals.
On October 1, 1996, Joe was sworn in as DuPage County State's Attorney, completing the unexpired term of Jim Ryan who was elected Illinois Attorney General, and Anthony Peccarelli who was appointed State's Attorney in January of 1995. One month later, Joe was elected to the position for a four-year term, and in November of 2000 he was re-elected for another four-year term. He was the Republican Nominee for Illinois Attorney General in 2002 and won all 102 Counties in the Primary Election. He was reelected to his third term as State's Attorney in 2004.
  