
    The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of North Las Vegas City Councilman and Mayor Pro Tempore William E. Robinson.
"Among the greatest challenges facing America today are restoring our global respect, repairing our tattered alliances and refocusing our international policy," said Robinson. "Senator Clinton has the right combination of experience, courage and vision to achieve these goals and put our country back on the right path. After eight years in the White House, six years in the Senate and 35 years fighting to empower those whose voices are seldom heard, I am confident that Senator Clinton is the most capable candidate in a strong Democratic field to bring about the change we need. I look forward to mobilizing caucus goers to support Senator Clinton's historic bid for the presidency."
First elected to the North Las Vegas City Council in 1983, Robinson is currently serving his seventh consecutive term. As Councilman, he has presided over a period of record population growth and economic expansion for the City of North Las Vegas. A resident of North Las Vegas since 1960, Robinson is currently the longest-serving African American elected official in Nevada.
Robinson is a past president of the Nevada League of Cities and Municipalities, and was recognized by the league in 1989 as "Public Official of the Year." He is currently a member of the Community and Economic Development Committee for Small Cities of the National League of Cities. He currently serves as Chairman of the North Las Vegas Housing Authority Board of Directors, and is a member of the Board of Directors for the North Las Vegas Redevelopment Agency. In addition, he is a past member of the Board of Directors for the Southern Nevada Health District.
Robinson is retired from the Clark County School District, where he worked as an outreach consultant. He is a life member of the U.S. and International Jaycees - where he serves as a J.C.I. Senator – as well as the Nevada and North Las Vegas chapters. He is also a member of the North Las Vegas Democratic Club.
"For many years, William Robinson has been a stalwart civic leader and advocate for Nevadans," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "He knows the community inside and out, and understands from first-hand experience the power of real, on-the-ground grassroots organizing. We are honored to have him on our team."
  