
    "Today on the campaign trail, President Obama declared 'we want change in Washington.' After four years of the Obama Administration's failed policies and broken promises, the American people agree. Middle-class families have been devastated by job loss, falling incomes, and a sluggish economy. Mitt Romney will change Washington, and his plan for a stronger middle class will create 12 million new jobs and a better future for all Americans." — Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today In Virginia, President Obama Declared Americans "Want Change In Washington":
President Obama, Today: "We Want Change In Washington." OBAMA: "We don't want an inside job in Washington. We want change in Washington." (President Barack Obama, Remarks, Woodbridge, VA, 9/21/12)
Click Here To View
Who's Ready For Change In Washington? Americans Who Are Struggling With Stagnant Unemployment And Falling Incomes:
In August, The Unemployment Rate Either Increased Or Was Unchanged In 38 States. "The Labor Department says rates increased in 26 states. They fell in 12 states and were unchanged in the other 12." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "Unemployment Rates Rise In Half Of US States," The Associated Press, 9/21/12)


    The Associated Press Headline: "Unemployment Rates Rise In Half Of US States" (Christopher S. Rugaber, "Unemployment Rates Rise In Half Of US States," The Associated Press, 9/21/12)
  

States Where Unemployment Increased In August Included Wisconsin, New Hampshire, Iowa, North Carolina, And Nevada. "The jobless rate increased in August in five of 10 battleground states in the U.S. presidential election less than two months before voters go to the polls. Unemployment climbed in Wisconsin, New Hampshire, Iowa, North Carolina and Nevada, figures from the Labor Department showed today in Washington." (Michelle Jamrisko And Alex Kowalski, "Unemployment Rate Rises In Five Of 10 U.S. Campaign Swing States," Bloomberg, 9/21/12)
"The Income Of The Typical U.S. Family Fell Or Was Flat In Almost Every State Last Year." "The income of the typical U.S. family fell or was flat in almost every state last year, with the drop particularly steep in places where the economy has been hit hard by the housing bust." (Josh Mitchell, "Incomes Fell Or Stagnated In Most States Last Year," The Wall Street Journal, 9/20/12)


    "Nationally, The Median Income Dropped By 1.3% To $50,502 In 2011." (Josh Mitchell, "Incomes Fell Or Stagnated In Most States Last Year," The Wall Street Journal, 9/20/12)
  

"Ohioans Got An Economic Punch In Stomach Again In 2011 As The Buckeye State's Median Household Income Declined By 5.7 Percent From A Year Earlier..." "Ohioans got an economic punch in stomach again in 2011 as the Buckeye State's median household income declined by 5.7 percent from a year earlier -- a drop more than three times greater than the national average, according to U.S. Census Bureau officials. Figures released Wednesday by the Census Bureau estimated Ohio's median income at $44,648, a decline of $2,675 from the previous year." (Dave Davis, "Ohio Income Down, Rates Of Poverty And Uninsured Unchanged, 2011 Census Figures Show," The Plain Dealer, 9/13/12)
The Median Household Income In Nevada Fell By 6 Percent Last Year. "The median annual household income—the point on the income scale at which half earn more and half earn less—fell in 18 states in 2011 from a year earlier after adjusting for inflation, according to a Census Bureau report to be released Thursday. The sharpest drop occurred in Nevada, where median income fell by 6%." (Josh Mitchell, "Incomes Fell Or Stagnated In Most States Last Year," The Wall Street Journal, 9/20/12)
The Income Of The Typical Florida Family Dropped By 2.9 Percent Last Year. "The income of the typical Florida family dropped 2.9 percent last year, one of the sharpest reminders that the Sunshine State's deflated economy remains mired in unemployment and lower-wage jobs." (Robert Trigaux, "Florida's Household Income Slips, Signaling Tougher Recovery Ahead," Tampa Bay Times, 9/21/12)
The Michigan's Median Household Income "Fell By 1.5 Percent And The Percentage Of People Living In Poverty Jumped From 16.8% To 17.5%." "Despite claims in the past year that Michigan had bottomed out of the recession, new data released today by the U.S. Census Bureau show there still is much work to be done as incomes continue to fall and poverty rates climb -- particularly child poverty rates. From 2010 to 2011, the statewide median household income fell by 1.5 % and the percentage of people living in poverty jumped from 16.8% to 17.5%." (John Wisely And Kristi Tanner, "Michigan's Kids Suffer Hard Times As Incomes Fall, Poverty Climbs," Detroit News, 9/20/12)
And Life Isn't Getting Any Easier For Middle-Class Americans — Manufacturing Around The Country Is In Decline:
"U.S. Manufacturing Suffered Its Weakest Quarter In Three Years." "U.S. manufacturing suffered its weakest quarter in three years and conditions at European businesses worsened, surveys showed on Thursday, while China's economy continued to lose momentum." (Steven C. Johnson And Andy Bruce, "U.S. Factories Struggle, Europe And China Slump," Reuters, 9/20/12)
"Manufacturing In The Philadelphia Region Shrank For A Fifth Straight Month In September." "Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region shrank for a fifth straight month in September, reinforcing signs the industry will offer less support to the U.S. economy." (Shobhana Chandra, "Philadelphia Area Manufacturing Contracts For Fifth Month," Bloomberg, 9/20/12)
This Month, "Manufacturing In The New York Region Contracted More Than Forecast" And The Federal Reserve Bank Of New York's General Economic Index Dropped To Its Lowest Level Since April 2009. "Manufacturing in the New York region contracted more than forecast in September as orders shrank, a sign the world's largest economy will get less support from the industry. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York's general economic index dropped to minus 10.41, the lowest since April 2009, from minus 5.85 in August." (Shobhana Chandra, "Manufacturing In New York Region Shrinks More Than Forecast," Bloomberg, 9/17/12)
  