
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jon Adler of the District of Columbia to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance, Department of Justice. For the past 26 years, Mr. Adler has served as a professional and volunteer leader in law enforcement. Mr. Adler amassed considerable law enforcement training experience serving as the chief firearms and tactical training instructor for the United States Attorney's Office in the southern district of New York, as well as a lead criminal investigator. As a volunteer law enforcement leader, Mr. Adler served as the president of the Federal Law Enforcement Officers Association, and subsequently as the president of its foundation. Mr. Adler led the largest professional association representing federal and task force officers nationwide. Mr. Adler also served as the vice chairman of the National Law Enforcement Officers Memorial Fund, and as the first chair of the Department of Justice's Congressional Badge of Bravery Federal Review Board. Mr. Adler graduated with honors from Baruch College with a B.B.A., and from Seton Hall University with an M.A.
Thomas Harker of Virginia to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, Financial Management and Comptroller. Mr. Harker currently serves as Associate Deputy Assistant Secretary of Financial Policy for the Department of Veterans Affairs. Mr. Harker served in a mixture of operational and financial management tours before retiring from active duty as a Coast Guard commander in 2012. Since retiring from active duty, he spent two years in public accounting before returning to the Coast Guard as a civilian. His final assignment on active duty before retirement was in the Executive Office of the President's Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Harker is a recipient of the Coast Guard Meritorious Service Medal, Commendation Medal, and Achievement Medal; the American society of military comptrollers distinguished award for business management; and the association of government accountants achievement of the year award. Mr. Harker is a graduate of the University of California and received his masters of business administration from the University of Miami.
Bruce Landsberg of South Carolina to be a Member of the Transportation Safety Board for a 5-year term beginning January 1, 2018 and upon confirmation to be designated Vice Chairman for a term of 2 years. Mr. Landsberg was born and raised in Maryland. Currently, Mr. Landsberg serves as the senior safety advisor for the Aircraft Owners and Pilots foundation (AOPA) and Air Safety Institute. Most recently, Mr. Landsberg served as the President of AOPA foundation and Air Safety Institute from which he stepped down in 2014. Prior to that, Mr. Landsberg served as the executive director of the AOPA foundation and Air Safety Institute from 1992 – 2010. He also has served as the industry co-chair of the runway safety program for the Federal Aviation Administration. Mr. Landsberg received his B.A. from the University of Maryland in 1971 and his M.A. in industrial technology from the University of Maryland in 1976.
Linda A. Puchala of Maryland to be a member of the National Mediation Board for the remainder of a term of three years expiring July 1, 2018. Ms. Puchala was born and raised in Michigan. Ms. Puchala has served as a member of the National Mediation Board since 2009 after being appointed to the board by former President Obama. Prior to that, Ms. Puchala served as the senior mediator of the National Mediation Board from 1999 – 2009. She has also served as the international president of the Association of Flight Attendants from 1979 – 1986. Ms. Puchala earned her B.A. in business administration from Cleary University in 1989.
Kimberly A. Reed of West Virginia to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2021. Ms. Reed most recently was President of the International Food Information Council Foundation, a non-profit collaborating with governments, the food and agricultural supply chain, and health professionals on issues surrounding the feeding of the global population. She previously served as senior advisor to U.S. Treasury Secretaries John Snow and Henry Paulson, and led the U.S. Treasury Department's Community Development Financial Institutions Fund, where she awarded nearly $4 billion in tax credits, loans, and grants to financial institutions and economic development groups for investing in economically distressed communities. She also was counsel to three Congressional committees in the U.S. House of Representatives: Ways and Means, Government Reform and Oversight, and Education and the Workforce, and vice president for financial markets policy relations at Lehman Brothers. Ms. Reed is recognized as one of the "100 Women Leaders in STEM" (Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math), serves on several boards. She is the first woman chair of the Republican National Lawyers Association. She holds a B.S. in biology and government from West Virginia Wesleyan College and J.D. from West Virginia University College of Law.
Peter B. Robb of Vermont to be General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board for a term of four years. Mr. Robb currently works as the director of labor and employment at the law firm Downs Rachlin and Marin. Prior to that, Mr. Robb served as special labor counsel to Proskauer Rose from 1985 – 1995. He also served as chief counsel to Member Robert Hunter on the National Labor Relations Board. Mr. Robb earned his B.A. in economics from Georgetown University and his J.D. from the University of Maryland School of Law. Mr. Robb currently resides in Vermont with his family.
The following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Export Import Bank:

Claudia Slacik of New York, Small Business Representative, for the remainder of a 4-year term expiring January 20, 2019.
Judith Delzoppo Pryor of Ohio, for the remainder of a 4-year term expiring January 20, 2019.

-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Personnel to Key Administration Posts
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
The following individuals will serve as Members of the Community Development Advisory Board for terms of 4 years:

Todd McDonald of Louisiana, Insured Depository Institutions Representative.
Clinton B. Gwin of Tennessee, Community Development Financial Institutions Representative.

  