
    The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers (BAC). The BAC is the oldest continuous union in North America and represents roughly 100,000 skilled masonry-trowel trades craftworkers.
"Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to deliver the change America needs. After years of an administration that has turned its back on working families, we need a President whose priorities are our priorities," said BAC President John J. Flynn. "A President who will work with us to grow the economy and address the issues facing workers and their families, a President whose commitment, experience and strong leadership will help put America's middle class back on its feet, a President who will govern through strength - not fear. We believe that Senator Hillary Clinton meets those needs and will be our next President.
Flynn said Clinton was the clear winner in a poll of BAC members, and BAC's executive council voted unanimously to endorse her.
"During her years in public service and in the U.S. Senate, she has listened, she has learned and she has led the fight on so many of the issues that our members care about most - bringing the war in Iraq to a close, advancing affordable, accessible health care, safeguarding Social Security and Medicare, defending prevailing wage protections, restoring the rights of workers to organize and join unions, and ensuring that our veterans receive the services they so justly deserve. Senator Clinton has earned our Union's support - she's worked hard for BAC members and we intend to work hard for her election.
The Council also committed to launching an aggressive union-wide effort to engage and mobilize members to help Clinton secure the Democratic nomination and win the general election in 2008.
"I am honored to receive the support of the International Union of Bricklayers and Allied Craftworkers," Clinton said. "In my administration, America's working families will again have a partner in the White House."
Clinton has also been endorsed by the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers and the United Transportation Union.
  