
    Mitt Romney today announced his Puerto Rico Campaign Committee, including Republican National Committeewoman Zoraida Fonalledas who will serve as Chairwoman of the campaign in Puerto Rico.
"I am proud to announce my Puerto Rico Campaign Committee," said Mitt Romney. "Around the world, the United States has helped plant the seeds of democracy. Meanwhile, close to four million American citizens in Puerto Rico do not enjoy the same rights and privileges of democracy as their other fellow citizens. In Washington today, a lack of leadership in the White House is paralyzing significant progress on too many issues. As president, I will provide the leadership and resources necessary to ensure that this century-old question is resolved. As I've said in the past, by working with Congress, we can grant Puerto Ricans the opportunity to determine their future political status. Only in this way can we close the book on Puerto Rico's political limbo and one of the great unresolved questions of American democracy."
Announcing her support, Republican National Committeewoman Zoraida Fonalledas said, "Puerto Rican voters are looking for the candidate who is ready to turn around our struggling economy – as a businessman and governor, Mitt Romney was able to do just that. Of all the candidates, he has the most experience working in the real economy. That experience will be needed in our next president to grow the economy and create jobs."
Mitt Romney's Puerto Rico Campaign Committee:

Zoraida F. Fonalledas: National Committeewoman – Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Mario Gaztambide: Treasurer – Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Héctor Ramos: Legal Counsel Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Hon. José Torres Zamora: State Legislator – Chair, House Republican Caucus
Hon. Vanessa Viera: Deputy Secretary Of The State Department Of Puerto Rico
Hon. Luis Gerardo Rivera Marín: Secretary Of The Department Of Consumer Affairs – Deputy Legal Counsel – Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Gloria Escudero: President – National Federation Of Republican Women - Puerto Rico Chapter
Luis Carlos Maldonado: President – Federation Of Municipal Legislators
Jorge San Miguel: Deputy Director For Federal Affairs – Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Andrés Guillemard, Sr.: President: Lone Star Insurance Producers, Inc.
Antonio Hernández: Deputy Legal Counsel – Republican Party Of Puerto Rico
Eduardo Emanuelli: Insurance Broker – Carrion, Laffitte & Casellas Insurance Company

  