
    Encourages Latinos to Register to Vote and Make their Voices Heard
Hillary Clinton joins millions of Americans in commemorating Hispanic Heritage Month, which runs from September 15 through October 15. Clinton encouraged Hispanics to celebrate the month by registering to vote and becoming involved in the democratic process.


  [Click here] to download the audio of Hillary Clinton's statement.

"Hello, I'm Hillary Clinton, and during Hispanic Heritage Month, I join you in celebrating the achievements and contributions that Hispanics make every day to shape our great nation.
"Latinos are now the largest ethnic group in the United States, and in some states like Nevada, they are the fastest growing part of the population. This is a diverse community that includes families who have been here for centuries, and those who have come to America more recently, looking for freedom, peace and a more prosperous future.
"But while the community is diverse, it is united by strong values: faith, family, patriotism and the belief that if you work hard and play by the rules, you can build a better future for your children.
"These are times of challenge, but also of opportunity for Hispanics in America. To be able to face the challenges ranging from access to health care and quality education to comprehensive immigration reform and ending the war in Iraq, Hispanics must be at the table when decisions are made.
"Thirty five years ago, I traveled through South Texas, registering Latino voters with help from my friend Raul Yzaguirre. We traveled many miles and knocked on many doors, encouraging people to take that first step to be at the table through the power of their vote.
"Today, various coalitions of local and national organizations are stepping up voter registration efforts in the Hispanic community to ensure that your voices are heard. These efforts are creating the opportunity for more Latinos to help put our country on the right path, reclaim the future for our children, and bring back the values of integrity, fairness and tolerance in America.
"Change is just a word unless you have the strength and experience to make it happen. I've spent 35 years of my life fighting to bring change to our country. As president I will be committed to ensuring that every Hispanic family has the opportunities they need to realize their dreams of a better life.
"I encourage all Latinos to celebrate Hispanic Heritage Month by getting involved. I hope you will make your voices heard by registering to vote and then helping to bring about the change that America needs."
  