
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 6
In the morning, the President traveled from Camp David, MD, to Norfolk, VA.
In the afternoon, the President participated in a classroom renovation project at Coleman Place Elementary School in classrooms 29 and 30. Later, he traveled to Newport News, VA.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President had separate telephone conversations with U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and Prime Minister John Howard of Australia concerning the situation in East Timor.
The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Storm Dennis and tornadoes beginning on August 27 and continuing.
September 7
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Olney, MD, where he read to a first grade class and visited a third grade history class at Brooke Grove Elementary School. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Adm. Joseph W. Prueher to be U.S. Ambassador to China.
September 8
In the morning, the President had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia.
The President announced his intention to nominate Linda Lee Aaker, Edward L. Ayers, Pedro G. Castillo, Peggy Whitman Prenshaw, and Theodore W. Striggles to be members of the National Council on the Humanities.
September 9
In the evening, the President traveled to Auckland, New Zealand, arriving the following day.
The President announced his intention to nominate Sim Farar to be U.S. Representative to the 54th session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Dennis on August 29 and continuing.
September 10
The President announced his intention to nominate John F. Potter to be a member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences at the Department of Defense.
  