
    WASHINGTON, DC – President Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•        H.T. Nguyen – Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations
•        Martha G. Abbott – Member, National Security Education Board
President Obama said, "These fine public servants bring a depth of experience and tremendous dedication to their important roles. I look forward to working with them."
President Obama announced his appointment of the following individuals to key Administration posts:
H.T. Nguyen, Appointee for Member, National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations 
H.T. Nguyen was appointed by President Obama to the National Council on Federal Labor-Management Relations in 2010, 2012, and again in 2014. Mr. Nguyen has served as the Executive Director/General Counsel for the Federal Education Association (FEA) since 1998. Previously, Mr. Nguyen served as the Deputy General Counsel for the FEA from 1988 to 1998, where he was the FEA's lead attorney in all major cases involving the Association. Prior to that, Mr. Nguyen was a Staff Attorney with the FEA from 1984 to 1988. Mr. Nguyen received a B.A., M.A., and J.D. from the Catholic University of America.
Martha G. Abbott, Appointee for Member, National Security Education Board 
Martha G. Abbott is Executive Director of the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign Languages (ACTFL), a position she has held since 2011. From 2004 to 2011, Ms. Abbott was Director of Education at ACTFL. Prior to joining ACTFL, she was the Director of High School Instruction for Fairfax County, Virginia Public Schools from 2001 to 2004 and served as a Foreign Language Coordinator from 1991 to 2001. Earlier in her career, Ms. Abbott taught courses in Spanish and Latin at the elementary, high school, and postsecondary levels. She has held a number of leadership positions within teaching organizations, including President of ACTFL in 2003, Chair of the Northeast Conference on the Teaching of Foreign Languages in 1999, and President of the Foreign Language Association of Virginia in 1996. Ms. Abbott received a B.A. from the University of Mary Washington and an M.S. from Georgetown University.
  