
    
  STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY

(Senate)
(Sen. Shaheen, D-NH, and five cosponsors)
The Administration supports S. 1392, the Energy Savings and Industrial Competitiveness Act of 2013. This bipartisan legislation would codify and enhance existing Federal programs, further supporting successful efforts to reduce energy waste through building energy codes and industrial energy efficiency programs and by identifying efficiency opportunities in Federal buildings. S. 1392 complements key energy efficiency dimensions of the President's Climate Action Plan that will work to cut carbon pollution and begin to slow the effects of climate change, so that we can leave a cleaner and more stable environment for future generations.
Energy efficiency is a large, low?cost, and underutilized U.S. energy resource. Increased energy efficiency offers savings on energy bills, opportunities for more jobs, and improved industrial competitiveness, and it will lower air pollution. The Administration strongly supports improving energy efficiency in the residential, commercial, and industrial sectors and in the Federal government.
S. 1392 would build on the momentum established by the Administration's "all of the above" energy strategy, supporting the President's goal to cut in half the energy wasted by U.S. homes and businesses by 2030. From supporting States and local governments with American Recovery and Reinvestment Act investments (which has led to over one million homes being weatherized and to other local energy efficiency improvements), to partnering with companies and businesses to reduce their energy bills through the Better Buildings Initiative, to Federal administrative actions to cut energy use across Federal facilities, the Administration is committed to winning the future by catalyzing a homegrown, clean energy economy in the United States.
S. 1392 will support the Administration's efforts to strengthen U.S. competitiveness through significant research and development investments in manufacturing innovation and productivity, such as the Department of Energy's recently launched Clean Energy Manufacturing Initiative. This initiative focuses on growing U.S. manufacturing of clean energy products, boosting U.S. manufacturing competitiveness across the board by increasing manufacturing energy productivity, and providing training and technical assistance for manufacturers.
The Administration looks forward to continuing to work with the Congress on this bipartisan legislation to support energy efficiency and boost U.S. competitiveness and job creation.
  