
    Pool Reports by Sebastian Smith, Agence France-Presse



Sent:
Reports:




 September 25, 2020 09:56

 Out of town travel pool report #1 
Good morning, the pool is gathered at President Trump's Doral golf resort where he is hosting a "Latinos for Trump " campaign event. Scheduled start 1100 am. The event will be found on various livestreams but I will of course fill in any color or other details as possible.
After this event, POTUS will fly from Miami to Atlanta, GA, for another campaign event — "Black Economic Empowerment: The Platinum Plan."
He then heads back to DC for a "round table with supporters" at his hotel, followed by a campaign rally in Newport News, VA.
Pool has asked the White House whether Trump will meet with Judge Barbara Lagoa while he's down here. 


 September 25, 2020 10:36

 Out of town travel pool report #2 
A little color before the start of President Trump's "Latinos for Trump" event in Doral.
An audience of more than 150 people, nearly all in suits or dresses, is gathered in the front half of a dimly lit, fiercely air-conditioned hotel ballroom. There is no social distancing. While waiting, less than half the people are wearing masks.
In case anyone wonders, the traveling White House pool had a Covid-19 test this morning and is seated in the room's rear half, behind the crowd.
The president will be seated at a long table on a stage, with a backdrop of the Stars and Stripes and a half dozen Latin American flags. There are two jumbo screens currently reading: "Latinos for Trump 2020." 


 September 25, 2020 11:13

 Out of town travel pool report #3 
President Trump took the stage for his Latinos event at 11:11 am to enthusiastic applause, a lot of people filming on cellphones, shouting, and the "Proud to be an American" walk-up song.
His seat is at the center of a long table, with four people seated to each sides. Ahead of his arrival, all eight were wearing masks but a few minutes before the president entered a man in a suit came up and spoke to them, upon which they removed their masks.
Per White House spokesman Judd Deere: "All those in close proximity to the president are tested beforehand."
The speech can be followed on livestreams, but will send highlights. 


 September 25, 2020 12:06

 Out of town travel pool report #4 
The Latinos event is wrapping up soon and pool moving out for the motorcade back to Miami airport.
Here are a few highlights, but please double check quotes against a playback. Acoustics where pool is seated not always great.
President Trump began with a shout-out to a UFC fighter in the audience, Jorge Masvidal, joking about his five-second knock-out of an opponent in 2019, a UFC record."He used to beat up people and somebody said come to the gym."
About how glad he was to see Doral again: "I bought it before I became president and I had no intention of being president.""At least I see my properties, even if just for a short period of time."
On the election and polls: "we're going to win it big. It just feels good."
On Latinos:"Hispanic Americans enrich our nation beyond measure."Biden: "He sold out the Hispanic American community.""I've achieved more for Hispanic Americans in 47 months than Joe Biden has achieved in 47 years."
On Democratic majority states:"They are stone cold crazy with what they'll do to our country.""Weakness all over the place."
On himself as a "wall:""I'm like a wall between the American Dream… between the American Dream and chaos, and a horror show."
On the US economic recovery:"Make American great again, again… There's a spirit out there that I've never seen, even far beyond what it was four years ago."Third quarter GDP predicted to jump "from 23 pct to 35 pct and any one of them would be an all time record, worldwide."
On support for him from Hispanics:"I just got the Bay of Pigs Award."
Comparing the upcoming debate with UFC fights:"This wins probably it's 50 percent of it," Trump said, pointing to his head."You've got to have this too," he said, rubbing his left arm."Biden's a weak guy."He asked Jorge Masdival how much the 'head' part matters in a fight. Masdival answers: "80 percent."
On the border/wall:"Throwing out MS13 all the time… threw thousands and thousands out of our country.""You can come into the country but you have to come in illegally."
On Cuba, Nicaragua, Venezuela:"Biden met with Maduro and nothing happened.""We're going to make wonderful deals but we have to wait till after the election."Democrats turning the US into Venezuela: "It could happen""This would be a Venezuela on major steroids.""It could happen rapidly."
On Russia interference/2016 collusion:"We caught them cold," he says, referring to the FBI investigators looking into his Russia links."It was a whole conspiracy. It was the worst thing anybody's seen and we caught them cold. It was the opposite. They were the ones that conspired.""We went through three years of crap.""It was spying on the campaign…. Then it was a coup."Coups: "You think of certain South American countries"Says the mainstream media doesn't cover this but "it's taking over the internet."
At the 25 minute mark, President Trump asked the business people seated with him at the long table to make remarks, which lasted about another 30 minutes.
One of the speakers recommended that President Trump get the Nobel Peace Prize and this got the audience on its feet and drew the loudest cheers of the day. 


 September 25, 2020 12:37

 Out of town travel pool report #4 —- typo correction 
A quote in the highlights from the president's remarks at the Hispanics event contained a typo, for which apologies:
"You can come into the country but you have to come in illegally" should of course have read "come in legally." 


 September 25, 2020 12:22

 Out of town travel pool report #5 
Motorcade rolling to Miami airport at 12:21 pm. Pool not in a position to see POTUS entering the Beast. Jared Kushner was spotted jogging to get into his vehicle in time - much like your poolers hustling to their vans. 


 September 25, 2020 12:36

 Out of town travel pool report #6 
? Trump motorcade arrived at AF1 at 12:32 pm, following a fast drive along a highway featuring a few dozen Trump supporters 2020 flags, a prison, a strip club, strip malls, warehouses and large billboards- one for a divorce lawyer and one showing aa baby and saying "evidence of God", with an accompanying Biblical citation . Pool not able to see The president boarding. We're soon wheels up, bound for Atlanta.xxx 


 September 25, 2020 14:25

 Out of town travel report #7 
?AF1 landed in Atlanta at 2:02 pm, after a flight with no visitors to the press cabin, but a delicious lunch that included a taste of Florida in the form of Key Lime pie.
President Trump disembarked at 2:20 pm and chatted at length with several greeters, including Senator Loeffler, who sported a black mask emblazoned with the word "TRUMP" and Gov. Brian Kemp.
POTUS then entered the Beast without taking questions from the pool. We are rolling to the Cobb Galleria Centre for a campaign event titled "Black Economic Empowerment: The Platinum Plan."
Full greeters list from WH:
The President is met by –
Governor Brian KempGovernor of Georgia
Marty KempFirst Lady of Georgia
Senator David PerdueUnited States Senator from Georgia
Senator Kelly LoefflerUnited States Senator from Georgia
Congressman Doug CollinsUnited States Representative from Georgia's 9th Congressional District
Congressman Barry LoudermilkUnited States Representative from Georgia's 11th Congressional District
Congressman Drew FergusonUnited States Representative from Georgia's 3rd Congressional District
Maj Gen John HealyCommander, 22nd Air Force, Dobbins Air Reserve Base (MGE)
Maj Gen Thomas CardenThe Adjutant General, Georgia National Guard
Col Craig McPikeCommander, 94th Airlift Wing, Dobbins Air Reserve Base (MGE) 


 September 25, 2020 14:43

 Out of town travel pool report #8 
President Trump's motorcade arrived at 2:40 pm at the Cobb Galleria Centre for the "Platinum Plan" event.
Along the way, we passed a couple people giving the motorcade the thumbs down from apartment balconies, but then encountered a large group of supporters waving Trump 2020 flags and also several people with prominent "Q" signs and/or T-shirts. Some counter protesters were visible further on, but only just. 


 September 25, 2020 15:11

 Out of town travel pool report #9 
POTUS took the stage in a ballroom type of space at 3:08 pm, following a series warm-up speeches from African American leaders, including Housing Sec. Ben Carson.
Speakers lauded the president with a torrent of scriptural references that frequently gave the atmosphere more of a church than election campaign.
"God made this man president," said one.
The last Trump endorsement speech came from NFL great Herschel Walker who said: "I've always know that he was different."
"He don't get the credit for all the things that he done in the African American community?" Walker said to applause. "He keeps God in the house."
"All us Americans have received so many tpuchdown passes from this man that… it is time to recognize our quarterback."
The audience was also treated to a campaign video on jumbo screens.
There are approximately 200 people in the audience, nearly all of them African Americans. Zero social distancing. A great many not wearing masks.
Trump's remarks are being streamed live.
The Trump2020 campaign issued these details of the "Platinum Plan:"
KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF THE PLATINUM PLAN
* Increase access to capital in Black communities by almost $500 billion* 3 million new jobs for the Black community* 500,000 new Black-owned businesses* Making Juneteenth a federal holiday* Designating the KKK and ANTIFA as terrorist organizations* Expand Opportunity Zones 


 September 25, 2020 16:04

 Out of town travel pool report #10 
?POTUS is wrapping up and pool is being hustled out to the motorcade.
The president spoke for just under an hour. A few highlights:
"Platinum plan:"
"It's going to be something that people talk about for a long time to come," he said. He promised various economic, business and social initiatives through the plan: "the highest standards of policing," "even greater fairness" to the criminal justice system, and more clemency and pardons.
Democrats "have taken black voters for granted," he said. "I did more for the African American community in 47 months… than Joe Biden did in 47 years."
The president said Joe Biden doesn't campaign and "by the way, he's staying in again today." (Actually, Biden went to Washington today to pay respects to the late justice Ginsburg lying in state in the US Capitol.)
On BLM:Trump referenced Breonna Taylor and others. "Our hearts break for their families and for all families who have lost a loved one, especially if you look at this way -- so senseless. But we can never allow mob rule."
Says BLM is "really hurting the black community."
The crowd boos when he mentioned the words Black Lives Matter.
Says BLM aims to "achieve the destruction of the nuclear family, abolish the police, abolish prisons, abolish border security, abolish capitalism and abolish schools."
Denounces "wealthy liberal hypocrites" supporting BLM and living in "walled compounds."
Election disupte:President Trump discussed the coming election results, which he said may not be known on November 3 because of mailed in ballots: "With me, we may end up in a dispute for a long time, because that's the way they want it, but we're going to end up winning."
SCOTUS:The biggest cheers -- screams -- of the day were when Trump mentioned "we are appointing a Supreme Court justice.""Fill the seat" chanted the crowd.
Joke:"Will we be president in 10 years?" President Trump asked, then explaining that whenever he said things like this he is joking, but "you can't joke."
"'I told you he's a dictator, he will not give up power!'" he said, mimicking what he said were people failing to get his sense of humor.
"Twelve more years!" chanted the crowd after the president said the media exaggerates when people jokingly chant 12 more years. 


 September 25, 2020 16:12

 Out of town travel pool report #11 
? POTUS Motorcade rolling for Atlanta airport at 4:11 pm 


 September 25, 2020 16:27

 Out of town travel pool report #12 
?POTUS boarded AF1 at 4:26 pm without talking to pool. Wheels up shortly, headed to JBAndrews. 


 September 25, 2020 18:08

 Out of town travel pool report #13 
AF1 landed at Joint Base Andrews at 5:55 pm. We had no one come back to the press cabin during the flight.
POTUS disembarked at 6:04 pm and is taking questions from pool. More to come. 


 September 25, 2020 18:14

 Out of town travel pool report #14 
? Quick quotes from under the wing of AF1
On SCOTUS, President Trump says about whether he has made a decision:"In my own mind yes"
Told that Amy Coney Barrett is being reported as the pick:v"I haven't said that "
"They're all great "
"I haven't said it was her but she is outstanding "
Says in Florida he "Did not" meet Judge Lagoa. 


 September 25, 2020 18:19

 Out of town pool report 15 
? President Trump's motorcade rolled from AF1 at 6:09 pm after his brief comments under the wing. Handing off to in-town pool, with thanks to co-pooler Anne Gearan of WaPost for great help throughout this trip. 




Pool Reports below by Steven Nelson, New York Post



Sent:
Reports:




 September 25, 2020 18:10

 In-town pool report 1 
President Trump disembarked Air Force One at 6:04 holding an umbrella. He spoke to the travel pool under the wing (in-town pool watched from a distance).
The in-town motorcade was rolling from Joint Base Andrews at 6:09.
We are en route to Trump hotel in downtown DC for a closed-press event.
We will return to JBA for Trump's departure to an evening rally in Newport News, Virginia. 


 September 25, 2020 18:31

 In-town pool report 2 
?The motorcade stopped near Trump hotel at 6:29 following an uneventful drive into DC.
The pool will be holding in vans until we return to JBA.Steven Nelson 


 September 25, 2020 19:36

 In-town pool report 3 
?The motorcade was rolling back to Joint Base Andrews at 7:34, one minute earlier than scheduled.
I have no additional information to share about the event inside Trump hotel. Members of the pool entered the hotel for a bathroom break, but we did not see President Trump, who presumably was in the hotel's ballroom. The hotel's bar and lounge area had a significant number of guests. 


 September 25, 2020 19:57

 In-town pool report 4 
The motorcade pulled up to Air Force One at 7:55 after an uneventful drive back to Joint Base Andrews.
President Trump boarded at 7:56 without speaking to reporters. 


 September 25, 2020 23:33

 In-town pool report 5/lid 
?Marine One landed in the rain at 11:20 on the South Lawn.
President Trump walked into the White House residence at 11:23. He waved but did not answer a shouted question about whether he called Amy Coney Barrett, his reported pick for the Supreme Court.
There appears to be plastic covering the new stone path around the Rose Garden (the venue for tomorrow's 5 pm Supreme Court nomination announcement). The stone is fenced off and we took a detour to and from the South Lawn. 




Pool Reports below by Todd Gillman, The Dallas Morning News



Sent:
Reports:




 September 25, 2020 19:58

 Travel pool report #16/Andrews 
(Picking up from #15, final travel pool report from Sebastian Smith as we swap poolers, due to POTUS returning to DC and leaving again same day.)
We are heading to a Trump campaign event at the airport in Newport News, Va.
Vice President Pence will be there, too, per his chief of staff Marc Short, who checked in at JBA with fresh poolers.
Very slight drizzle at Andrews.
We are flying a smaller, cell service-unfriendly Air Force One. Press seating three across. Tail no. 90016.
The president's motorcade came into view from under the wing at 7:53, a long parade of flashing blue and red. He got out of the Beast and boarded the front stairs without stopping to chat. He waved from the top and was aboard at 7:56. 


 September 25, 2020 20:48

 Travel pool report #17/landed at Newport News, Va 
Uneventful and brief flight from Joint Base Andrews to southeast Virginia.
Judd Deere stopped back and gave a rundown of VIPs aboard the flight, other than himself:
Hope Hicks, Dan Scavino, Jason Miller and White House chief of staff Mark Meadows.
Correction to previous report: VP chief of staff Marc Short is not aboard AF1. He flew with Pence on AF2.
Also not aboard: White House counsel Pat Cipollone. Take that as a sign of whatever you like ahead of the SCOTUS nominee announcement tomorrow afternoon.The cozy Air Force One was wheels up from JBA at 8:09 pm and wheels down at Newport News at 8:44 pm. Taxiing. 


 September 25, 2020 21:10

 travel pool report #18/Newport News rally 
?As thousands of people in southeast Virginia already know, Air Force One pulled to a stop as a backdrop to the stage set up at the airport. The pounding bass of the incredibly loud sound system was leaking into the cabin and as we emerged into the air the pool could recognize Queen's Bohemian Rhapsody.
Huge huge cheers when the president was introduced and he strode the short walk from the plane. Relatively few cheers when he asked how many people are here from nearby North Carolina. "Not bad."
Many thousands of people are outside. It obviously rained here because the press tables were covered with water. Apologies for the delay. Wifi/internet wasn't working.
He opened with riff attacking Biden for promising to put Beto O'Rourke of Texas in charge of gun policy."Only by voting for me can you save your country and save your Second Amendment."Moved on to polls etc."I said let's give Virginia shot. We're nearby."
Open press.... 


 September 25, 2020 21:33

 travel pool report #19/crowd color from Newport News rally 
?It is a lovely evening. Gentle breeze. Mid-60s. No doubt that's making it comfortable for the many many thousands of people packed together on stadium-style risers and on the tarmac.
"You didn't hear any of this bullshit," Trump said of the Russia hoax at 9:29pm, about 20 minute in, if you want to find the full context.
Masks usage is mixed. Hard to say. Could be 10% of the crowd. Could be 25%. Lots of folks near the press have masks lowered, around their neck.
Some folks in the crowd:29-year-old Katie Koslow, a military spouse who lives just on the other side of the airfield, in Newport News. She came with her husband and their 6-year-old, who craned to see Trump from atop dad's shoulders. None of the three wore masks.
"We're here to show our daughter what it means to be patriot," Koslow said, Of the crowd: "It's wonderful. What's happened with the shutdown is a travesty. It's bad for business. It's bad for morale."Does she know anyone who's contracted COVID-19? "Not a one," she said.Nearby, 69-year-old Robert Jernigan, a civilian worker at Langley Air Force Base. He was wearing a mask but likewise had no qualms about the turnout despite the state's ban on gatherings over 250."I'm glad to see so many people. You've got to live life," he said. "A lot more people wanted to come but there was a mix-up. People thought they had to have paper tickets." 


 September 26, 2020 00:22

 travel pool report 19a/updating a name from crowd at Newport News rally 
?A woman in the crowd quoted in travel pool report #19 has now asked to be identified differently.If you use that material please ID her as Katie Schumann (not Koslow).
So, resending that part with the name she prefers::29-year-old Katie Schumann, a military spouse who lives just on the other side of the airfield, in Newport News. She came with her husband and their 6-year-old, who craned to see Trump from atop dad's shoulders. None of the three wore masks."We're here to show our daughter what it means to be a patriot," Schumann said. Of the large crowd she said, "It's wonderful. What's happened with the shutdown is a travesty. It's bad for business. It's bad for morale."Does she know anyone who's contracted COVID-19? "Not a one," she said.


 September 25, 2020 22:01

 travel pool report #20/more Newport News rally 
Trump name checked Sen. Kamala Harris, who's no Mike Pence in his assessment. He played with the pronunciation a few times and quipped a mnemonic: "kah-MAH-la" and others, and "KAH-muh-la" (sounding like comma-la) and added "She's like a comma."
He also name checked Republican candidates, including Scott Taylor, the former congressman seeking a comeback after losing two years in a scandal involving aides and fraudulent election petitions. POTUS did riff as usual on ballot integrity related to mail-in ballots but did not mention that scandal.
When Trump called out to Virginia Republican chairman Rich Anderson he asked "how are we doing? I don't want to be wasting my time" by campaigning in Virginia. Answerson, just behind POTUS and to his left behind the barrier, and wearing a mask, flashed a right thumb up.
The people at Trump's feet all had folding chairs but hardly any were seated, just as most folks in the stadium risers were standing throughout. Huge American flag hung from yellow cranes to POTUS' left, as backdrop for cutaway shows. AF1 is behind him for head-on photos.
VP Pence spoke before pool arrived and we did not hear him.
"Boos" at mention of "Barack Hussein Obama" in riff about Trump's Nobel Peace Prize nominations. Cheers when he says "we're in the Oval Office and they're not, and let's keep it that way."
He's still talking at 10 pm, 50 minutes in, but we've been warned we're getting close to wrapping up. 


 September 25, 2020 22:16

 travel pool report #21/Newport News rally ends 
?Winding down shortly after 10 pm, POTUS told the crowd "I love you people but I've been doing this since early in the morning. I'm getting the hell out of here." The crowd cheered and clapped.
He's working so hard compared to Biden, he said, he'll be embarrassed if he loses.Finished speaking at 10:12. Huge cheers. Heart pounding blast of Village People YMCA. POTUS spoke just over an hour. He clapped and waved and strode to the plane. Saluted. Walked to the top. Turned and waved, getting one more big roar from the crowd. Ducked inside at 10:15.
Next stop JBA. 


 September 25, 2020 23:03

 Travel pool report #22/back at JBA 
The slightly diminutive Air Force One touched down at Joint Base Andrews at 10:56 pm after a short and uneventful flight from Newport News, Va.
Plane came to a stop at 11:01.It is raining steadily. 


 September 25, 2020 23:16

 Travel pool #23/final at JBA 
?POTUS exited Air Force One in a steady rain at 11:07 pm holding an umbrella. He gave a quick wave to the pool sheltering under the wing and kept walking, boarding Marine One a minute later. Aides followed.
Rotors whirled at 11:10 and the chopper drove off and then was wheels up.
As pool was exiting at the rear door of Air Force One, he had a very brief chat with Jason Miller, asking if the campaign is really making a play for Virginia.
"You never know," he said.
Handing off to intown pool. 



  