
    In response to Trump's dangerous education proposals announced during his speech today in Cleveland, HFA Senior Policy Advisor Maya Harris offered the following statement:"It's no surprise that Donald Trump—whose only experience when it comes to education is his fraudulent 'Trump University'—offered education policies that would prove disastrous for our public schools, our educators, and most importantly, our kids. Let's be clear: Trump's proposal to apparently gut nearly 30 percent of the federal education budget and turn it into private school vouchers would decimate public schools across America and deprive our most vulnerable students of the education they deserve.
"Hillary Clinton believes that the public school system is one of the pillars of our democracy. As president she will fight to strengthen our public schools to ensure every student receives a world-class education, regardless of their ZIP code."
Donald Trump's proposal, explained: TRUMP: "[U]se $20 billion of existing federal dollars to establish a block grant for the 11 million school age kids living in poverty."
EXPLAINER: A more extreme version of past Republican proposals, Trump's plan would apparently eliminate the targeting of federal dollars to schools and districts with the highest concentrations of low-income students. Instead, he would turn over all $15.4 billion in Title I funding to states, and allow money to follow students outside of the public school system to private or parochial schools.


    Trump's proposal could strip funding from up to 56,000 public schools serving more than 21 million children.By allowing funding to leave America's 56,000 Title I schools, Trump's proposal will put crucial funding at risk for nearly 21 million American students.
  

    Trump's proposal might only serve 1.4 million students, while stripping funding from the other 10.5 million low-income students in America.Trump's proposal would serve no-where near 11 million students. The average cost of a K-12 private school is $13,640 per student, per year. Since the vast majority of states do not support private school vouchers, Trump's proposal would have to carry the full cost of attendance. As a result, Trump's proposal might only serve 1.4 million students, while taking away funding that serves America's low-income schools.
  

    Trump's proposal could have a devastating impact on student achievement.Research shows that students who attend schools using vouchers often do worse than those who stayed in their neighborhood public schools.
  
To fund his $20 billion voucher program, Trump would have to cut all Title I funding and $5 billion dollars in additional federal education programs.Trump would need to "repurpose" roughly $5 billion in annual education funding which currently supports programming such as preschool, Pell grants, and crucial resources to help low income students, students with disabilities, and English-language learners.

  