
    Alexandria, VA - Senator Lindsey Graham delivered a speech on the Iran deal yesterday as a guest speaker at the National Press Club Luncheon in Washington, DC. Graham outlined the reasons why the deal with Iran is dangerous, how he would negotiate a better deal, and what he would do as president to make sure Iran doesn't achieve the ability to hit our homeland.
Senator Graham has been at the forefront of the fight to stop the Obama Administration's bad nuclear deal with Iran and continues to be the most outspoken critic of the deal when it comes to the 2016 presidential field. In case you missed it, watch the full video of his remarks and check out some of the coverage his speech made below:
CLICK TO WATCH THE FULL VIDEO:

Jennifer Rubin: "It Is An Asset To The Party And The Country To Have A Strong, Informed Voice On National Security..."
"Sen. Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) — in contrast to Donald Trump who seems unabashedly ignorant — is selling himself as the most experienced presidential candidate on the most important issue, national security. After decades dealing with these issues, more than 35 trips to Iraq and Afghanistan, and experience as a military reservist he probably does deserve that distinction. At the National Press Club on Tuesday, as debate was beginning on the Iran deal, Graham lambasted the president...
"He is a welcome antidote to celebrity politics and an unabashed critic of Donald Trump's brand of nasty politics. Nevertheless, it is an asset to the party and the country to have a strong, informed voice on national security..." (Jennifer Rubin, "Sen. Lindsey Graham: Selling national security experience," The Washington Post, 09/09/15)
The Guardian: "Lindsey Graham Slammed The Deal As One That 'Gives [Iran] A Nuclear Bomb, A Missile To Deliver It And The Money To Pay For It."
"At a luncheon at the National Press Club on Tuesday, long-shot Republican presidential candidate Lindsey Graham slammed the deal as one that 'gives [Iran] a nuclear bomb, a missile to deliver it and the money to pay for it.' The three-term senator from South Carolina and vocal foreign policy hawk argued that Obama had negotiated from a position of weakness and allowed the Iranian regime to take advantage of the United States. 'The Iranians have sized Obama up and found him lacking,' he said." (Dan Roberts and Ben Jacobs, "Iran deal: Obama may have support he needs to avoid using veto," The Guardian, 09/08/15)
TIME: "In A Scathing Speech Tuesday, [Graham] Argued That Obama Was Willing To Overlook Festering International Problems [For] The Iranian Agreement."
"Sen. Lindsey Graham blamed President Obama's pursuit of an Iranian nuclear deal for everything from Russian's invasion of Ukraine to Chinese cyber-attacks and the collapse of Yemen's government. In a scathing speech Tuesday, the Republican presidential contender argued that Obama was willing to overlook festering international problems in order to get cooperation on the Iranian agreement. 'He has neither the will nor the understanding of the Middle East,' Graham said at an appearance at the National Press Club. 'Evil is doing well on his watch and he has been a poor champion of freedom.'" (Philip Elliott, "Graham Blames Global Problems on Iran Nuclear Deal," TIME, 09/08/15)
LA Times: "Graham, An Outspoken Critic Of Obama's Foreign Policy...[Noted] That The United States 'Needed A Tough American President' Who 'Wouldn't Take A Bad [Deal]'"
"GOP presidential hopeful Sen. Lindsey Graham (R.-S.C.) labeled the Iran nuclear deal a 'strategic blunder for the ages' that could one day 'become a death sentence for the state of Israel' on Tuesday in Washington. Graham said that President Obama's nuclear deal gives Iran 'a nuclear bomb, a missile to deliver it, and the money to pay for it.' Graham, an outspoken critic of Obama's foreign policy...[Noted] that the United States 'needed a tough American president' who 'wouldn't take a bad [deal],' Graham emphasized that Obama instead 'projected weakness.'" (Mary Ann Toman-Miller, "Lindsey Graham calls Iran deal a 'death sentence' for Israel," LA Times, 09/08/15)
MSNBC: "Calling the deal the 'Greatest Miscalculation' Of Obama's Presidency, Graham Said... He'll Fight To Impose Additional Sanctions"
"Sen. Lindsey Graham, who is also running for the nation's highest office, delivered remarks criticizing the deal on Tuesday afternoon at the National Press Club in Washington, D.C. Calling the deal the "greatest miscalculation" of Obama's presidency, Graham said no matter how Congress votes, he'll fight to impose additional sanctions against Iran until all U.S. hostages are released. Graham said he will push to block funding for International Atomic Energy Inspections until details of any side agreements are released. 'I will not let up until we change course, force Iran back to the table, and get a better deal,' said the South Carolina lawmaker." (Aliyah Frumin, "Dick Cheney: Iran nuclear deal is 'madness,'" MSNBC, 09/08/15)
CNN: "Throughout The Speech, Graham [Talked] About Obama's 'Weakness' And Failures In Negotiating The Deal With Iran"
"Republican presidential candidate Sen. Lindsey Graham did not hold back in his criticism of those who run Iran's government Tuesday, calling them Nazis. The South Carolina senator made the comments in speech at the National Press Club in Washington on his opposition to President Barack Obama's nuclear deal with Iran. Graham referred to a 2009 uprising in that was harshly slapped down by the Iranian regime, saying it was Obama's first lesson on how they operate...Throughout the speech, Graham [talked] about Obama's 'weakness' and failures in negotiating the deal with Iran, which is set to come up for debate on the Senate floor Tuesday afternoon." (Tal Kopan, "Lindsey Graham: There are 'religious Nazis running Iran,'" CNN, 09/08/15)
  