
    Today, President Bush Announced His Intention To Nominate Mary Peters As Secretary Of Transportation. Peters brings a lifetime of experience on transportation issues from both the private and public sectors and has a reputation for character and common sense. She is an innovative thinker – and she knows how to set priorities and solve problems for the people. As Secretary of Transportation, Peters will work closely with State and local leaders to ensure that America has a state-of-the-art transportation system that meets the needs of our growing economy.

From 2001 To 2005, Peters Served As Head Of The Federal Highway Administration. As Administrator, Peters led efforts to improve safety and security, reduce traffic congestion, and modernize America's roads and bridges. She encouraged the use of new technologies that reduce construction time and expense and result in safer, longer-lasting highways and led a national campaign to improve safety in highway work zones. Peters also led the Federal Highway Administration's efforts to complete a multi-year authorization of surface transportation programs.


Before Coming To Washington, Peters Served As Director Of The Arizona Department Of Transportation (ADOT). She joined ADOT in 1985, working her way up through the ranks before being appointed Director in 1998. She received a Bachelor of Arts in Management from the University of Phoenix, Arizona.


Peters Now Serves As Senior Vice President At HDR, Inc., A Major Engineering Firm. In 2006, President Bush appointed her to the National Surface Transportation Policy and Revenue Study Commission, where she serves as Co-Vice Chairman.

The Secretary Of Transportation Is Responsible For Maintaining A Safe, Reliable, And Efficient Transportation System. Our Nation's transportation infrastructure is vital to our prosperity and competitiveness – and it is critical to the every day lives of our citizens. In addition, the Secretary of Transportation plays an important role in our Nation's coordinated efforts to guard against terrorist threats to our aircraft, seaports, and infrastructure.
Peters Will Succeed One Of Our Nation's Finest Secretaries Of Transportation, Norm Mineta. Secretary Mineta shows that when we put politics aside, people from different parties can work together to achieve results for the American people. He leaves office as the longest-serving Secretary of Transportation in our Nation's history.

Secretary Mineta Was The Secretary Of Transportation On September 11, 2001 – And He Led The Unprecedented Effort To Bring Tens Of Thousands Of Passengers Aboard Commercial Aircraft To Safe Landings. Since then, he has worked to strengthen the security at America's airports and seaports, and has played a critical role in keeping America safe from terrorist attack. Secretary Mineta also worked hard to help eliminate red tape and liberalize the commercial aviation market. After Hurricane Katrina, Secretary Mineta and his team swung into action to repair and re-open the highways, airports, seaports, and pipelines along America's Gulf Coast.

  