
    Jeb has condemned the recent terrorism directed at Israelis. In a recent tweet he said:

  It's past time for Obama Admin to call on Palestinian leadership to stop incitement, combat terrorism and accept Israel's right to exist.

Follow Jeb on Twitter and Facebook.

When I launched my campaign, I was proud to count some long-time friends as my supporters. They have been with me since my earliest days in Florida, and we have shared great memories together. Among them include members of the Jewish community who have welcomed me into their homes for Passover Seder, taken me as a travel companion to Israel and worked with me on issues of shared concern, such as religious freedom, school choice and economic opportunity. Having their support has meant so much, and we are looking to build that team.
My hope is to campaign in every state and in every community, because I believe my message and conservative ideas will resonate everywhere. We will rebuild our economy so everyone can have a chance to rise. We will defend the institutions of faith and civic engagement, which are this nation's glory. We will confront anti-Semitism wherever it exists. We will restore our alliances around the world, especially with the brave and democratic State of Israel.
Getting involved in my campaign will make a difference as we work to accomplish these goals. Everyone can do their part, and I'm asking our volunteers to pitch in, gather signatures to get on the ballot, help raise funds, talk to their friends and build the kind of campaign we need to win the nomination and then the election. The work ahead will be challenging, but I hope it will be joyful.

Jeb has support from across a broad spectrum of the Jewish community. Here is what some of our supporters have to say:
"There are four qualifications for the presidency in which Jeb surpasses all other candidates: intelligence, temperament, relevant experience, and a focused commitment to using this nation's strength to defend the values that underlie Western civilization." — Former Attorney General Michael B. Mukasey
"I am supporting Jeb Bush for President because I saw first hand as a Florida resident how Gov Bush was an effective and strong leader. I have no doubt that the world leaders who currently see weakness in American leadership will know once Jeb is elected that the Boss is Back." — Ms. Morgan Ortagus
"Governor Bush appreciates the unique relationship we have with the State of Israel. There is no better friend to the most stable democracy in the Middle East than Governor Bush. The stability and security of Israel is a major concern to people of faith across our nation and there is no one better to restore this vital relationship than Jeb Bush." — Dr. Jason J. Rosenberg
"I have personally known Jeb for over 20 years. I have been with him at events related to both the Jewish community and Israel. I have had intimate conversation with Jeb about Israel and the Jewish people both prior, during and after his many trips to Israel. There is no one running for President today that has a deeper understanding and deeper connection to Israel and the Jewish people than Jeb. And no other candidate will be as committed a friend to Israel than my dear friend Jeb Bush." — Ambassador Ned Siegel
"I am supporting Jeb Bush for President because he is great on all issues relating to Israel. He is honest and cares. Jeb Bush is a great patriot and Zionist." — Mr. Isaac "Yitz" Applbaum
"Today Israel is threatened from without by Iran through Hezbollah and the Iranian Quds forces in Syria and from within by a coordinated effort by Abbas and Hamas to terrorize Israelis with seemingly random attacks inside Israel. Obama has followed his typical "blame the victim" policy of accusing Israel of over-reacting to the attacks on innocent Israeli citizens as they go about their daily lives in Jerusalem and other cities. We need a President with the moral clarity to recognize the truth of the situation and the courage to speak lout, regardless of political correctness and what the Europeans might think. Jeb is the leader who can and will speak out for our ally Israel as it is besieged by these threats from within and without." — Mrs. Leora R. Levy
"Jeb has proven himself a strong leader, and clearly has such conviction. What's more, Jeb does not view political adversaries as implacable enemies. Repairing the breach in American society, arresting the trend of political polarization, are essential for a century of peace and prosperity. By successfully governing one of America's most diverse states, and earning the confidence and respect even of his political opponents, Jeb is the only candidate who can indeed bring Americans closer together." — Michael Granoff
"It is no accident that the erosion of America's economy coincides with the destructive chaos that currently rules the globe. Ironically, we are at a time in our history where innovation can give wings to every dream. Jeb has the right ideas, values, abilities and determination to bring all Americans together, leverage that national strength of innovation and put us back in charge of our own destiny so that an economically revitalized America can once again be a global source of inspiration and strength for everyone in the world that believes in individual freedom and economic progress for all." — David Carmen
"I support Jeb because he's the only candidate who has the experience and temperament to lead this country at this incredibly challenging time. The simple truth is that no one is more qualified for the office than Jeb." — David Germunder
"Gov. Jeb Bush has the strongest record of leadership and clearest vision for a optimistic, principled leadership that will restore our economy and our nation's power for good in the world. When others seem to run on anger and promises, he is running to restore the American Dream to my and future generations." — Councilman Scott Singer
The Honorable Eric Cantor, Chairman of the Jeb 2016 National Jewish Leadership Committee
Mr. Yitz Applbaum
Mr. Scott Arogeti
Mr. Harold Beznos
Mr. Joshua Bolten
Mr. David Carmen
Mr. Adam J. Chill
Mrs. Renee Evans
Mr. Steve Friedman
Mr. David Gemunder
Mr. Sander Gerber
Mr. Ron Gidwitz
Rabbi Doniel Ginsberg
Mr. Ken Goldberg
Mrs. Sherry Goldberg
Mr. Adam Goldman
Mr. Al Goldstein
Mr. Michael J. Granoff
Mr. Yudi Gross
Mr. Reuven Hahn
Mrs. Cheryl Halpern
Mr. William H. Heyman
Mr. David A. Javdan
Mr. Mark Kaplan
Mrs. Autumn Karlinsky
Mr. Fred Karlinsky
Mrs. Joia Kazam
Mr. Joshua Kazam
Mr. Jay Kislak
Mr. Jonathan Kislak
Ms. Fara Klein
Mr. George Klein
Mrs. Glenda Krongold
Mr. Ronald Krongold
Mr. S. Randy Lampert
Mr. Michael Lebovitz
Mr. Jay Lefkowitz
Mrs. Leora Levy
Mr. Steven M. Levy
Mr. Ken Lipper
Mr. Jason Lyons
Mr. Ethan A. Marcovici
Mr. Bernie Marcus
Mr. Larry Medvinsky
Mr. David A. Metzner
Former U.S. Attorney General Michael Mukasey
Attorney General Sam Olens
Ms. Morgan Ortagus
Dr. Jeffrey Rosch
Mr. Thane Rosenbaum
Dr. Jason J. Rosenberg
Mr. David Schulman
Mr. Brian Schwartz
Mrs. Betty Sembler
Mr. Brett Sembler
Ambassador Mel Sembler
Mr. Michael Sevi
Honorable Florence Shapiro
Ambassador Ned L. Siegel
Mrs. Stephanie M. Siegel
Dr. Barry Silverman
Mr. Jeffrey Silverman
Councilman Scott Singer
Mr. Keith Sonderling
Mr. Gordon D. Sondland
Mr. Marc I. Stern
Mr. Jay Stieber
Mr. Eric Tanenblatt
Mr. Barry Volpert
Mr. Jonathan R. Weinberger
Mr. Alex Weiss
Mrs. Anat Zeidman
Mr. Fred Zeidman
Mr. Jay Zeidman
  