
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals and appoint four individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Kent D. Talbert, of Virginia, to be General Counsel at the Department of Education. Mr. Talbert currently serves as Acting General Counsel for the Department of Education. He previously served as Deputy General Counsel for the Department. Earlier in his career, Mr. Talbert served as Education Policy Counsel for the House Committee on Education and the Workforce. He was also an attorney in the private sector. Mr. Talbert received his bachelor's degree from Erskine College and his JD from the University of South Carolina School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Horace A. Thompson, of Mississippi, to be a Member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission. Mr. Thompson is currently an attorney at Watkins, Ludlam, Winter & Stennis. In addition, he serves as Co-Chair of the firm's Labor and Employment Law Practice Group. Mr. Thompson previously served as a founding partner of McCalla, Thompson, Pyburn, Hymowitz & Shapiro. He practiced with the firm for 25 years, specializing in labor relations law. Earlier in his career, Mr. Thompson practiced with the law firm of Jones, Walker, Waechter, Poitevent, Carrere & Denegre. During that time, he also served as an administrative leader of the firm's Labor and Employment Law Section. Mr. Thompson received his bachelor's degree and JD from Tulane University.
The President intends to nominate Jendayi Elizabeth Frazer, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation (Government Representative).
The President intends to appoint Timothy D. Adams, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The President intends to appoint Brigadier General Bill Grisoli, USA, of Washington, to be the Federal Member of the Delaware River Basin Commission (Delaware, New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania), and to be the Federal Member of the Susquehanna River Basin Commission (Maryland, New York and Pennsylvania).
The President intends to appoint William McDowell Matz, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Member of the Veterans Disability Benefits Commission for the life of the commission.
The President intends to appoint Linda M. Springer, of Pennsylvania, to be a Member of the President's Commission on White House Fellowships.
  