
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate seven individuals to serve in his administration and announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve as United States Attorneys.
The President intends to nominate Conrad Lautenbacher, Jr. to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. He is currently the President and CEO of the Consortium for Oceanographic Research and Education and was previously an Associate with Technology, Strategies and Alliances. A member of the U.S. Navy from 1964 to 2000, Lautenbacher served in a variety of positions at the Department of the Navy. He served as Deputy Chief of Naval Operations from 1997 to 2000, Director of the Office of Program Appraisal from 1996 to 1997, and Commander of the U.S. Third Fleet from 1994 to 1996. Additionally, from 1996 to 1999, Lautenbacher was Chairman of the Board of the United Services Benefit Association. He is a graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy and received both a Master's degree and Ph.D. from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate James E. Newsome to be Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission for the remainder of a term expiring June 19, 2006, and upon confirmation the President intends to appoint him as Chairman. Newsome has served as a Commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission since 1998 and is presently the Acting Chairman. Prior to joining the CFTC, Newsome was Executive Vice President of the Mississippi Cattleman's Association and Beef Council for nine years. Originally from Plant City, Florida, Mr. Newsome received his B.S. degree from the University of Florida and a Master's degree from Mississippi State University.
The President intends to nominate Norman A. Wulf to be Representative to the International Atomic Energy Agency. Wulf has served at the Department of State as Special Representative of the President for Nuclear Nonproliferation since 1999. From 1982 to 1999, Wulf was with the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, first as Deputy General Counsel and then as Deputy Assistant Director. He has earned multiple Superior Honor Awards from the Department of State and the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency. A veteran of the U.S. Navy, Wulf received an undergraduate degree from Iowa Wesleyan University, a J.D. from the University of Iowa and an LL.M. from the University of Miami.
The President intends to nominate Michael Hammond to be Chairperson of the National Endowment of the Arts for a term of four years. Dr. Hammond is presently the Dean of the Shepherd School of Music, the Elma Schneider Professor of Music and a Faculty Fellow in Neuroscience at Rice University in Houston, Texas. From 1992 to 1995, Hammond served as Rector of the Prague Mozart Academy in the Czech Republic. From 1968 to 1986, he was a professor, Dean of Music and then President of the State University of New York at Purchase. Hammond is a graduate of Lawrence University and a Rhodes Scholar. The President intends to nominate Diane M. Ruebling to be a Member of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. Ruebling is currently a Group Vice President for Central California and Western Nevada for American Express Financial Advisors. She has held a varity of positions with American Express Financial Advisors since 1987 including Field Vice President for South Texas and National Reengineering Implementation Director. From 1984 to 1987, she was with Honeywell in several positions including Corporate Manager for Strategic Human Resource Planning. From 1990 to 1992, Ruebling was a member of the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services, and she was appointed by the Governor of Iowa to the Iowa Commission on Professional and Occupational Licensing and Regulation. Ruebling received both an undergraduate and Master's degree from Iowa State University.
The President intends to nominate Josephine K. Olsen to be Deputy Director of the Peace Corps. Olsen is currently the Senior Vice President and Director of the Academy for Educational Development in Washington, D.C. From 1992 to 1997, she was the Executive Director of the Council for International Exchange of Scholars, the organization responsible for managing the Fulbright Scholar program. From 1979 to 1984 and again from 1989 to 1992, Olsen served at the Peace Corps in a variety of positions including Chief of Staff under Paul Coverdell and Elaine Chao; Regional Director for North Africa, Near East, Asia and the Pacific and Country Director in Togo. From 1966 to 1968, Olsen was a Peace Corps Volunteer in Tunisia. Olsen is a graduate of the University of Utah and received a Master's degree in Social Work and Ph.D. from the University of Maryland.
The President intends to nominate Edward Kingman to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for Management and Chief Financial Officer. Most recently, Kingman served as President and Chief Executive Officer of EuroTel Praha in Prague from 1998 to 2000, and from 1994 to 1998, he was Senior Vice President and then Executive Vice President of Grupo IusaCell in Mexico City. From 1992 to 1994, Kingman was Vice President of Finance ? Network, for Bell Atlantic. From 1969 to 1991, he served with the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Companies in several positions including Executive Director of External Affairs and Treasurer. Kingman received both an undergraduate degree and MBA from American University.
The President intends to nominate Alice H. Martin to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama. She is presently an attorney and mediator in private practice in Florence, Alabama, and from 1997 to 1999, she was a Circuit Court Judge for the State of Alabama's 11th Judicial Circuit. From 1993 to 1996, Martin was a Municipal Judge for the City of Florence, Alabama. Martin practiced law in Huntsville, Tuscumbia and Florence, Alabama, from 1989 to 1994. From 1983 to 1990, she served in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Western District of Tennessee. Martin is a graduate of Vanderbilt University and the University of Mississippi School of Law.
The President intends to nominate Patrick J. Fitzgerald to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois. Fitzgerald is currently Interim U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Illinois and has served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York, since 1988. During his time in the U.S. Attorneys Office in New York, Fitzgerald served as the Chief of the Organized Crime Unit, National Security Coordinator and a Member of the Attorney General's Critical Incident Response Group. Fitzgerald is a graduate of Amherst College and Harvard University Law School.
The President intends to nominate John L. McKay to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Washington. McKay has served as President of the Legal Services Corporation since 1997. From 1992 to 1997, he was Managing Partner of Caincross and Hempelmann in Seattle, and from 1982 to 1992, he was a Litigation Partner with Lane, Powell, Spears and Lubersky in Seattle. McKay served on the Board of Governors of the American Bar Association from 1991 to 1994, and was a member of the ABA's House of Delegates from 1991 to 1996. McKay is a graduate of the University of Washington and Creighton University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Karl K. Warner to be U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia. A member of the U.S. Army, Warner is currently General Counsel to the U.S. Special Operations Command, and from 1996 to 1998, he served as Legal Counsel to two Chairmen of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. From 1994 to 1996, Warner was General Counsel to the Army 10th Mountain Division and he served as Chief Legal Counsel to military operations in Haiti from 1994 to 1995. Warner is a graduate of West Point and West Virginia University School of Law.
  