
    President Trump has taken historic action on behalf of our nation's heroes by rebuilding the military, securing pay raises for service members, and overhauling the Department of Veterans Affairs to ensure veterans receive the care they deserve. In an attempt to distract from that stellar record, Joe Biden has shamelessly partnered with the fake news media to launch baseless attacks against President Trump. Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications, and Hogan Gidley, Trump 2020 National Press Secretary, refuted the lies against President Trump and defended his strong military record on today's 'Team Trump Online!' broadcast, hosted by Graham Allen, host of 'Dear America Podcast.'

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"As a veteran, I understand how deeply President Trump respects our military and am thrilled with the unprecedented actions he has taken to help service members and their families," said Graham Allen, host of 'Dear America Podcast.' "While Joe Biden spent his career cutting military funding and failing to protect our veterans' healthcare, President Trump has always stood with the men and women who defend our country."
"President Trump's record on defense and veterans issues could not be stronger: he has massively increased military funding, completely reformed the Department of Veterans Affairs, and launched groundbreaking initiatives to help military spouses and prevent veteran suicide," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications. "Joe Biden is depending on fake news attacks from the liberal media to distract voters from his own dismal record because he cannot compete with President Trump's historic actions on behalf of our nation’s heroes."
"As someone who has worked closely with President Trump, I know that he has the utmost respect and admiration for our military, no matter what the fake news media says," said Hogan Gidley, Trump 2020 National Press Secretary. "Joe Biden has to attack President Trump with lies because his own record on military and veterans issues is one of failure."
  