
    Romney for President today announced its Public Safety Professionals for Romney coalition. This coalition will lead an effort to increase support among the public safety community for Mitt Romney and ensure that our country is a safe and healthy place to live.
"I want to thank each and every one of the dedicated public safety officials that have agreed to join my team as members of Public Safety Professionals for Romney," said Mitt Romney. "Every day, peace officers from around this country put their life on the line to ensure that our citizens can live in safety. The men and women who have pledged to support me today represent the best and the bravest, and they personify the courage and fortitude of our nation's sheriffs and public safety officials. I am especially honored that Mayor Giuliani, Congressman Reichert, and Sherriff Bouchard have agreed to chair Public Safety Professionals for Romney. Their example and selfless commitment to public safety has set the standard that I will look to in this campaign and especially if I am fortunate enough to become the next President of the United States."
"I am honored to serve alongside Congressman David Reichert and Sheriff Michael Bouchard as Chairman of Governor Romney's Public Safety Coalition," said former New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani. "The first obligation of government is to protect our citizens, and those peace officers who dedicate their lives to that honorable cause are among our most cherished heroes. The men and women who have joined Public Safety Professionals for Romney are some of the most accomplished and respected members of their profession. Together, we will help Governor Romney to not only win this year's election, but also to ensure that every city in America is a safe and healthy place to live and raise a family."
"Having served as a county sheriff, I know that these brave men and women put their lives on the line every day to protect our families," said Congressman Dave Reichert. "They deserve a president who appreciates their sacrifices and understands what it takes to keep Americans safe. Mitt Romney will be that president, and together with Paul Ryan, they will usher in a new era of leadership in Washington that creates good jobs, brings down the poverty rate, and helps provide a future other than crime for our at-risk youth. I am proud to support them."
"As the sheriff of Oakland County, I know something about leadership," said Oakland County Sheriff Mike Bouchard. "That's why I am so pleased to be a part of Public Safety Professionals for Romney. Mitt Romney has governed a state, and he knows first-hand the support that we in the law enforcement community need to keep our communities safe. His record is impeccable, and I look forward to having such a great friend and ally to police officers and sheriffs in the White House."
Chairmen
Mayor Rudy Giuliani
Congressman David Reichert (R-WA)
Sheriff Michael Bouchard; Oakland County, Michigan
Honorary Co-Chairs
Congressman Rich Nugent (R-FL)
Congresswoman Sandy Adams (R-FL)
National Advisory Board
Sheriff John Rutherford; Jacksonville, Florida
Sheriff David Gee; Hillsborough County, Florida
Graham Fountain, Director of Law Enforcement Operations; Walton County, Florida
Sheriff Carolyn "Bunny" Welsh; Chester County, Pennsylvania
Sheriff Joseph McGinn; Delaware County, Pennsylvania
Christopher Hailey; Mecklenburg County, North Carolina
Sheriff BJ Barnes; Guilford County, North Carolina
The Honorable Marla Graff Decker, Secretary of Public Safety, Virginia
Sheriff Ken Stolle; Virginia Beach, Virginia
Sheriff Jeff Grey; Mercer County, Ohio
Sheriff Dennis Conard; Scott County, Iowa
Sheriff John LeClere; Delaware County, Iowa
Sheriff Ted Kamatchus, Marshall County, Iowa
Sheriff Scott Hilliard; Merrimack County, New Hampshire
Sheriff Craig Wiggin; Belknap County, New Hampshire
Sheriff Christopher Conley; Carroll County, New Hampshire
Sheriff Wayne Estes; Strafford County, New Hampshire
Sheriff Michael Downing; Rockingham County, New Hampshire
Sheriff Douglas Dutile; Grafton County, New Hampshire
Sheriff Richard Foote; Cheshire County, New Hampshire
Sheriff James Hardy; Hillsborough County, New Hampshire
Dennis Hogan, Hillsborough County Attorney; New Hampshire
Sheriff Gerald Marcou; Coos County, New Hampshire
Sheriff Michael Prozzo; Sullivan County, New Hampshire
Dan May, District Attorney; El Paso County, Colorado
Sheriff David Weaver; Douglas County, Colorado
Sheriff Rick Whitney; Allegany County, New York
Sheriff Adrian Anderson; Dutchess County, New York
Sheriff Tim Howard; Erie County, New York
Sheriff Don Smith; Putnam County, New York
Ed Mullins; President, New York City Sergeants Benevolent Association
Sheriff Jeff Long; Williamson County, Tennessee
Sheriff J.J. Jones; Knox County, Tennessee
Sheriff Joe Chapman; Walton County, Georgia
Sheriff Mike Byrd; Jackson County, Mississippi
  