
    Campaign to Spend Over $65 million Across Broadcast and Digital This Week
Biden for President is gearing up its paid media offensive, accelerating its spending on the air and digital to reach voters across the country in key battleground states. This week, the campaign will spend over $65 million on its paid media program — spanning television, radio, digital, print, and more — and is the single largest paid media investment the campaign has made to date while active in ten battleground states.
As the country continues grappling with the ongoing pandemic and Donald Trump's parallel attacks to strip health care away from millions of Americans, the campaign is also releasing a pair of new ads today that spotlight families with children who have pre-existing conditions and the importance of protecting their health care.
The first, "Little Brother," is a 0:30 spot that will run on broadcast and digital in Michigan, Minnesota, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin. It tells the story of Beckett, a child from Texas who has leukemia, and how his sister helped him through tough times. Beckett's mom talks about the family's fears about Trump's attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act and how it could drive up costs of Beckett's treatment.
Debuting on broadcast and digital in Arizona, Florida, and Nevada, "Anthony," is another 0:30 ad that shares an Arizona family's worries about Trump's rollbacks of protections for those with pre-existing conditions. Anthony's father speaks about the heart condition he has had since birth, and underscores how they know Joe Biden will protect the health care of Americans with pre-existing conditions.
Additionally, the campaign is launching two ads on television that pull excerpts from Biden's speeches, showing Biden speaking directly to voters about the Trump Administration's failures. "Unforgivable" uses a portion of Biden's nomination acceptance speech promising to protect America no matter what. "Do Your Job" shows Biden's speech in Wilmington, Delaware last week on the COVID-19 economic crisis calling on Trump to do his job and get the virus under control so we can create an economic comeback. These ads are the first 0:15 spots the campaign is placing on television airwaves.
Throughout its general election paid media program, the campaign has now gone up in a total of ten states, including Arizona, Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, Nevada, Ohio, Nebraska, and Minnesota.
  