
    SACRAMENTO, CA -- California's Legislative Black Caucus (LBC) today endorsed Senator Barack Obama for President. The LBC, which represents and advocates for the interests of African Americans throughout California, consists of black elected officials who serve in the California Legislature.
"It's imperative that we choose the candidate who is committed to addressing the disparity gaps that exist in our communities," states Assembly Majority Leader Karen Bass, vice chair of LBC and member of the Obama campaign's California Leadership Council. "We believe that Senator Obama is that person and we will work together to galvanize the Black community to be a part of the political process by getting involved in it. He is the only candidate that can unite people to get things done."
"The Legislative Black Caucus has fought for a more equal and just government that represents all Californians, not just those with money and access," said Senator Obama. "Together, we will challenge the conventional thinking in Washington that led our nation into a war that never should have been authorized and never been waged, and restore a government that puts the interests of all Americans before special interests."
African American leaders throughout the state have joined the Obama campaign to bring a fundamental change to Washington, including Senator Mark Ridley-Thomas, Los Angeles City Councilman Bernard Parks, Gardena City Councilman Steve Bradford, Oakland City Councilwoman Delsey Brooks, community leader John Mack and community activist Dr. Rev. Cecil Murray.
San Francisco District Attorney Kamala Harris, who co-chairs, African Americans for Obama for California, added: "Senator Barack Obama represents what we want in leadership. The special interest stranglehold on our politics has frozen progress on the great challenges facing Africans Americans and the nation, like the millions who lack health care coverage and the disparities in our education system. Barack Obama will change our politics by taking on special interests and restore our standing around the world by ending the Iraq War and combating genocide."
To find out more information about Obama for California, log on to California.BarackObama.com
  