
    I'm pleased to announce today my appointment of John Danforth of Missouri as America's envoy for peace in the Sudan. It's my honor to welcome the former United States Senator, his wife, Sally, and distinguished guests here to the Rose Garden for this important announcement.
I am under no illusions: Jack Danforth has taken on an incredibly difficult assignment. The degree of difficulty is high. But this is an issue that is really important. It is important to this administration—it's important to the world—to bring some sanity to the Sudan.
I'm honored to be on the stage with our Secretary of State, who is doing a fabulous job for America. When he speaks, the world listens. And when he speaks on this subject, the world will listen.
I'm honored to welcome Members of the United States Congress who have taken this issue very seriously. Thank you all for coming. And I want to thank members of the diplomatic corps who are here as well.
For nearly two decades, the Government of Sudan has waged a brutal and shameful war against its own people. And this isn't right, and this must stop. The Government has targeted civilians for violence and terror. It permits and encourages slavery. And the responsibility to end the war is on their shoulders. They must now seek the peace, and we want to help.
Today, the tragedy in Sudan commands the attention and compassion of the world. For our part, we're committed to pursuing a just peace, which will spare that land from more years of sorrow. We're committed to bringing stability to the Sudan, so that many loving Americans, nongovernmental organizations, will be able to perform their duties of love and compassion within that country without fear of reprisal.
Recently I appointed a humanitarian envoy, Andrew Natsios, the administrator of USAID, to address the material needs. Today I take a step further. By naming a distinguished American, a former United States Senator and ordained minister, a man of enormous respect, the United States will continue to signal to the rest of the world our interest in this subject, our desire to bring governments together to achieve a lasting peace.
I will repeat what I told Jack in the Oval Office: Our administration is deeply committed—is deeply committed—to bringing good folks together, from within our country and the leadership of other nations, to get this issue solved once and for all. It's a test of the compassion of the world.
As I said, the degree of difficulty is high. Jack Danforth brings a realistic assessment to what is possible. But he also brings a big heart and enormous amounts of energy and a great commitment. And so it is my honor to bring a good man back into Government to take on a difficult yet important assignment.
Please welcome John Danforth.
  