
    Pool Reports by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




September 21, 202310:31

Pool report #1/lid til 12:45p
Lid til 12:45p.
Next on schedule after that is the 1pm briefing.



September 21, 202312:57

pool report #2/briefing pushed to 1:15
The Press Briefing will begin at 1:15 PM rather than 1 PM as initially scheduled.



September 21, 202313:17

pool report #3/ 2 minute warning to briefing
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



September 21, 202314:24

pool report #4/ briefing ended
The briefing ran 58 minutes, starting at 1:19pm. Jake Sullivan, Karine Jean-Pierre.
Next up on the schedule: Open press arrival at 3 p.m. of Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelenskyy.



September 21, 202315:38

Pool report #5/ South Portico Zelenskyy arrival
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Mrs. Olena Zelenska of Ukraine arrived at the South Portico at 3:34pm.
President Biden and Dr. Biden emerged at 3:33 and chatted quietly before the black Suburban pulled up.
"Very important," Zelenskyy said to a shouted question about how important this visit is as the two couples posed for photos.
Other questions about funds for the war effort were ignored.
That were inside at 3:35. Pool is now in the Rose Garden near the Cabinet Room awaiting Colonnade walk.
An honor guard lined the driveway, dress uniforms somewhat more ornate than Zelenskyy's dark green fatigues.
Arrival was scheduled for 3. No explanation for repeated delays.
Soldiers held US and Ukraine flags at either side of the red carpet laid from door to driveway.
The arrival was open press. The pool was at the front of a crowded rope pen. Partly cloudy but the sun broke through before arrival and baked us.



September 21, 202315:43

Pool report #6/Colonnade walk
Presidents Biden and Volodymyr Zelenskyy entered the Oval Office at 3:40 after a one minute walk from the Palm Room.
They are seated and Biden is speaking to the pool. More tk.



September 21, 202315:54

pool report #7/Oval bilat - Zelenskyy
One question got a bite. Polish Radio's Marek Walkuski asked Zelenskyy if he's worried that Ukraine is losing Poland as a friend over the grain dispute.
"i want to thank the Polish people, Polish society for their support. That's it," Zelenskyy said. (The question and answer were in English.)
That was after wranglers had begun shooing the pool from the Oval.
More tk from the fairly standard prepared remarks from Presidents Biden and Zelenskyy.Pool was in there maybe 4 minutes.
"The people of Ukraine have shown enormous bravery," Biden said.
Zelenskyy, speaking in English from note cards said he had frank conversations with members of Congress. He said he looked forward to discussion military support from the US with Biden "with a special emphasis on air."



September 21, 202316:09

pool report #8/more from Oval bilat with Zelenskyy
In their prepared remarks in the Oval Office, Biden referred to Ukraine as a "partner." Zelenskyy referred to the US and Ukraine as "really truly allies."
Biden, speaking first, reiterated his UN sentiments and remarks. Called Ukraine a "partner" and said the US is "formalizing our commitment to Ukraine's long-term security alongside the G7 and with other partners."
"...we're supporting a just and lasting peace, one that respects Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity."
Zeleskyy, reading from cards, said:
"It's good that our countries are really truly allies." He expressed appreciation for the "vital assistance provided by the United States to Ukraine to combat Russia terrorism."
On his agenda with Biden: "When it comes to weapons we will discuss everything with a special emphasis on air defense."
"I am in Washington to strengthen Ukraine's position to defend our children, our families, our homes, freedom and democracy in the world," he said.
He recounted his "frank, constructive dialogue" earlier today with members of Congress from both parties in both the House and Senate.
from the press office:
The President is participating in a restricted bilateral meeting with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
Ukraine ManifestH.E. Volodymyr Zelenskyy, President of UkraineH.E. Andriy Yermak, Head of the Office of the President of UkraineH.E. Dmytro Kuleba, Minister for Foreign Affairs



September 21, 202317:00

pool report #9/awaiting expanded bilat
The pool is gathering now for the expanded Biden-Zelenskyy bilat in the East Room.
The White House will livestream the pool spray.
That is queued up at whitehouse.gov/live -- so don't plan on extensive quotes in pool reports. You'll be getting cleaner audio anyway.



September 21, 202317:34

Pool report #10/Zelenskyy expanded bilat
Again commending you to the livestream of the East Room expanded bilat between Presidents Joe Biden and Volodymyr Zelenskyy.
The pool entered the East Room at 5:30pm. Lots of us, with our Ukrainian colleagues. We were issued headsets for simultaneous translation.
The presidents are seated across from each other at the center of a long table. VP and Blinken on either side of Biden.
Military brass and officials of both sides are seated.
POTUS began speaking at 5:31.
"Russia alone stands in the way of peace," he said.
More tk



September 21, 202317:53

Pool report #11/Zelenskyy expanded bilat ends
More from the East Room.
Pool was out by 5:41. By then everyone at the table had gotten up from their seats and were clustered at the far end from the pool.
You likely already heard the one question that got answered. It was directed to President Zelenskyy, and it was whether congress will support supplemental aid for Ukraine. "Did you get any assurances?"
Both presidents were standing at that point. President Biden intercepted the question, after a pause by Zelenskyy, who it appeared wasn't sure either how to answer or whether to answer.
"I'm counting on the good judgment of the United States Congress. There is no alternative," Biden said.
After the pool entered and was ready, Biden delivered some remarks. Zelenskyy took some notes as Biden spoke. Unclear if he was marking up his own remarks, which he delivered in English, or taking notes on what Biden was saying.
After the one question and answer, everyone else at the table also stood, and the pool was ushered out and back to the recently renovated workspace.
From the White House:
The President is participating in an expanded bilateral meeting with President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentThe Vice PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of the TreasuryT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. William Burns, Director of the Central Intelligence AgencyT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Bridget Brink, Ambassador of the United States to UkraineGeneral Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffT.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of the United States Agency for International DevelopmentT.H. Penny Pritzker, U.S. Special Representative for Ukraine's Economic RecoveryT.H. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, National Security CouncilT.H. Philip Gordon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice PresidentMr. Anton Cooper, Director for Eastern Europe, National Security Council
Ukraine ManifestH.E. Volodymyr Zelenskyy, President of UkraineH.E. Andriy Yermak, Head of the Office of the President of UkraineH.E. Dmytro Kuleba, Minister for Foreign AffairsMr. Rustem Umerov, Minister of Defense of UkraineMr. Oleksandr Kamyshin, Minister for Strategic Industries of UkraineH.E. Andrii Sybiha, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of Ukraine and Chief Foreign Policy AdviserH.E. Ihor Zhovkva, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of UkraineMr. Roman Mashovets, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of UkraineMr. Rostyslav Shurma, Deputy Head of the Office of the President of UkraineH.E. Oksana Marakova, Ambassador of Ukraine to the United StatesGeneral Kyrylo Budanov, Chief of the Defense Intelligence of UkraineMr. Dmytro Lytvyn, Advisor to the Head of the Office of the President of UkraineMr. Andriy Kostin, Attorney General of Ukraine



September 21, 202319:20

pool report #12/POTUS rolling for convention center
The presidential motorcade rolled from the White House at 7:20pm, headed for the Washington Convention Center.
Per the guidance:
In the evening, the President will deliver remarks at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute 46th Annual Gala.



September 21, 202319:37

Pool report #13/convention center arrival
President Biden arrived at the Washington Convention Center at 7:26pm for the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute 46th Annual Gala. Parked a few minutes later in a cavernous hall a short walk from the gala hall.
Uneventful drive. Lots of people along New York Avenue and on sidewalks along 9th St. NW.
Pool area is at the back of the hall, hidden from view of the well dressed crowd by black drapes. Nothing to see from here but the back of the TV cameras.
We will be here roughly an hour before POTUS speaks.



September 21, 202319:43

pool report #14/photo line at CHCI gala
The president is apparently doing a photo line. The pool does not have eyes on this.
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute 46thAnnual Gala:
Senator Bob Menendez (NJ)Rep. Nydia Velazquez (NY-7)Rep. Raul Grijalva (AZ-07)Rep. Linda Sanchez (CA-38)Rep. Jim Costa (CA-21)Rep. Henry Cuellar (TX-28)Rep. Tony Cardenas (CA-29)Rep. Joaquin Castro (TX-20)Rep. Raul Ruiz (CA-25)Rep. Juan Vargas (CA-52)Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-33)Rep. Ruben Gallego (AZ-03)Rep. Norma Torres (CA-35)Rep. Nanette Barragan (CA-44)Rep. Salud Carbajal (CA-24)Rep. Lou Correa (CA-46)Rep. Vicente Gonzalez (TX-34)Rep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)Rep. Darren Soto (FL-09)Rep. Jimmy Gomez (CA-34)Rep. Veronica Escobar (TX-16)Rep. Jesus "Chuy" Garcia (IL-04)Rep. Sylvia Garcia (TX-29)Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (NY-14)Rep. Lori Trahan (MA-03)Rep. Greg Casar (TX-35)Rep. Robert Garcia (CA-42)Rep. Maxwell Frost (FL-10)Rep. Delia Ramirez (IL-03)Rep. Rob Menendez (NJ-08)Rep. Gabe Vasquez (NM-02)
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the Washington Convention Center were:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North AfricaTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterAlma Acosta Garcia, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison



September 21, 202320:04

pool report #15/CHCI gala program has begun
POTUS has just been introduced.
The White House website points to this, where it's being streaming live: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sOUbCrot5gE



September 21, 202320:19

pool report #16/Biden remarks at CHCI
President Biden ended his remarks at 8:18 p.m.
He started out by name checking the Latino members of his Cabinet, and his senior adviser Tom Perez, the former Labor Secretary and DNC chairman, who the pool walked past on the South Lawn driveway as we loaded the vans.
Biden continued with boasts about job growth and other economic progress for Latinos.
Biggest cheers were when he called for a ban on assault weapons and high capacity magazines, for codifying Roe v. Wade, and later when he mentioned the TPS conferred on some 470,000 Venezuelan migrants.
More cheers when he said that Hispanic heritage is American heritage, in contrast with those who would ban books and erase parts of the nation's history.
from the White House:
In attendance for the President's remarks at the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute 46thAnnual Gala:
Secretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human ServicesSecretary Miguel Cardona, Department of EducationSecretary Alejandro Mayorkas, Department of Homeland SecurityAdministrator Isabella Guzman, Small Business AssociationCongressional Hispanic Caucus Institute leadership, fellows, and interns, Members of Congress, industry leaders, community advocates, non-profit leaders, and students
Speaking ProgramRep. Adriano Espaillat (NY-13)The President



September 21, 202320:28

Pool report #17/rolling from CHCI gala
The Beast left the underground exhibition hall at the Washington Convention Center at 8:25pm, passed the loading docks and emerged onto the street. Headed back to the White House after the Congressional Hispanic Caucus Institute gala.



September 21, 202320:34

Pool report #18/back at White House
Motorcade pulled up to the South Portico at 8:31pm. Uneventful 6 minute drive from the convenconvention center.
Didn't see the president.



September 21, 202320:36

Pool report #19/lid
We have a lid.
Have a good evening.




 
Pool Reports below by Marek Walkuski, Polskie Radio 



Sent:
Reports:




September 21, 202314:02

Foreign pool report # 1 – Background on Zelenskyy's visit
Good afternoon,
I'm your foreign pooler for President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's visit to the White House.
The Ukrainian President and his wife Olena are scheduled to arrive at the South Portico at 3:00 PM. The arrival is open press. The leaders will hold a bilateral meeting in the Oval Office at 3:25 PM, followed by an expanded bilateral at 4:00 PM. Both meetings will be covered by the in-house pool. The First Ladies will hold a separate meeting, which will be closed press.
After his visit to Washington Zelenskyy will be heading to Ottawa, per Ukrainian Embassy to Washington, DC.
Volodymyr Zelenskyy arrived in New York on Monday September 18. He began his visit to the U.S. by visiting the Staten Island University Hospital where seriously wounded Ukrainian soldiers undergo treatment and rehabilitation. On Tuesday he gave a speech at the UN General Assembly and on Wednesday addressed the UN Security Council. In New York Zelenskyy held series of meetings with leaders of South Africa, Kenya, Israel, Brazil, Albania, Germany, Chile, Romania and Bulgaria. He also met with the President of the European Council, President of the European Commission and the UN Secretary General. Zelenskyy held a separate meeting with the U.S. Special Representative for Ukraine's Economic Recovery Penny Pritzker.
In New York Volodymyr Zelensky also met with business leaders, Wall Street CEO's and diplomats, including former Secretary of state Henry Kissinger. Before visiting the White House Zeleskyy met with leaders of Congress and visited Pentagon where he met with Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin.
This will be the sixth meeting between President Biden and President Zelensky, and his second visit to Washington since the beginning of Russian invasion.
Previous meetings:September 1, 2021 – Washington, DCDecember 21, 2022 – Washington, DCMay 21, 2023 – Hiroshima (G7 Summit)February 20, 2023 – KyivJuly 12, 2023 – Vilnius (NATO Summit)
Agenda:
Announcing Zelenskyy's visit to the White House NSA Jake Sullivan said that President Biden looks forward to hearing President Zelenskyy's perspective on the "progress in their counteroffensive", military assistance Russia's efforts to get help from countries like North Korea. Sullivan also said that POTUS will reaffirm his commitment to "continuing to lead the world in supporting Ukraine".
After arriving in Washington Zelenskyy commented on the recent Russia mass missile attack on Ukraine. "We must work together to fully deprive Russia of its terrorist potential" – he tweeted. He added that air defense will be among his top priorities during his meetings in Washington.
U.S. assistance for Ukraine:
Volodymyr Zelenskyy's visit in Washington takes place as Congress is debating $24 billion in aid for Ukraine for fiscal year 2024. Since the beginning of the Russian invasion in February 2022 the United States has committed almost $47 billion in military assistance (per NSC advisor jake Sullivan). According to the Kiel Institute for the World Economy total U.S. security, economic and humanitarian assistance to Ukraine reached around $75 billion. But Europe has already overtaken the United States in promised aid to Ukraine. The European Union and its member states have made available over $88 billion in financial, military, humanitarian, and refugee assistance for Ukraine (source: Eurostat). European donors (EU and non-EU) have now committed $165 billion in short term and multi-year aid to Ukraine, per the Kiel Institute
Zelenskyy's Bio
45-year old Volodymyr Zelenskyy was born in Kryvyi Rih in central Ukraine. He grew up as a native Russian speaker, but he is also fluent in Ukrainian and English. Zelenskyy received a law degree from Kyiv National Economic University but decided to pursue a career as an actor, comedian, script writer and producer. In 2015 Zelenskyy played a role in a popular television series Servant of the People of a schoolteacher who was elected president. Three years later he successfully run for President of Ukraine, unseating Petro Poroshenko. Official website of the President of Ukraine's office list his numerous international film festivals awards. It also emphasizes the fact that from outset of the hostilities in Donbas Zelenskyy team KVARTAL 95 "rendered support to the Armed Forces with funds, equipment and arranged shows on the front lines".
Volodymyr remains one of the most popular politicians in Ukraine. His popularity skyrocketed after the Russian invasion. In the poll published in Newsweek magazine in June 2023 Zelenskyy's approval rating reached 91 percent, with 58 percent strongly approving his actions as President. Volodymyr Zelenskyy is married to Mrs. Olena Zelenska. They have two children - daughter Oleksandra and son Kyrylo.



September 21, 202315:39

Foreign pool report #2 – Zelenskyy's arrival
President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and his wife Olena arrived in a black SUV at the South Portico at 3:33 PM and were greeted by POTUS and FLOTUS. After posing for pictures they entered the White House. Zelenskyy answered a question how important is his visit. "Very important" - he said.
Before the arrival a honor military corridor lined up on both sides of the driveway, with 56 flags representing all U.S. states, territories and DC. Zelensky is wearing his signature olive-green clothes, Mrs. Zelenska a beige costume.
The pool will soon move to the Oval Office for the bilat.



September 21, 202315:58

Foreign pool report #3– Oval Office
When the pool entered the Oval Office at 3:42 PM, President Biden and President Zelensky were standing next to each other. Then they took seats by the fireplace.After President Biden's welcoming remarks, Zelenskyy thanked him for the invitation.
"Today I'm in Washington to strengthen our coalition to defend Ukrainian children, families, our homes, freedom and democracy in the world. And I started my day in the US Congress to thank its members and the people in America for their big, huge support" - said Zelenskyy.
Your pooler askedZelenskyy if he is concerned that he may be loosing Poland as a friend over the grain export dispute. "I'm thankful to Polish nation, to Polish society. That's it" - he said.
Please check against official transcript as it was hard to hear.



September 21, 202316:23

Foreign pool report #4 - more Zelenskyy's quotes
In his remarks Zelenskyy said he was glad to meet POTUS. "It's already the fourth time this year" – he noticed. He said the US and Ukraine are strategic friends an and thanked Biden "for assistance provided by the United States to Ukraine to combat Russian terror".
More quotes:
"Today I'm in Washington to strengthen our coalition to defend Ukrainian children, our families, our homes, freedom and democracy in the world. And I started my day in the US Congress to thank his members and two people in America for rolling big, huge support. I felt trust between us. It allowed us to have frank and constructive dialogue".
Now I look forward this President to our discussion for the benefit of our nations and the world. When it comes to weapons we will discuss (inaudible) with a special emphasis on air defense.
Question to Zelenskyy: Are you concerned that you are loosing Poland as a friend over grain export dispute?
"I'm grateful to Polish people, to the Polish society for their support. That's it" – said Zelenskyy.



September 21, 202318:06

Foreign pool report #5 - Zelenskyy's remarks at the expanded bilat 
After POTUS's remarks President Zelenskyy spoke for less than 3 minutes. Below the rough transcript:
"Thank you so much, Mr. President. Thank you for all this 575 days (since Russian invasion). And thanks to American people. All these days they were together with us or with Ukrainians, with all our people, all of us. Thank you so much. Thanks you, your team, Congress, and thanks journalists that for all your messages to your society and to the world that you share the truth about this tragedy, aggression from Russia.
So thank you very much. James Rosen Biden. Thank you for the warm meeting and very productive, strong negotiations. And today we have some important results. First, we agree to work on the future force of Ukraine. It's very important and it's a strategic decision that will allow us to prevent any, any new aggression against Ukraine and our people. And this will be one of the outcomes of Vilnius, G7 declaration and our bilateral security arrangements.
Second, we reached new agreement that will strengthen Ukraine's defense capabilities. Thank you so much, more details will be announced shortly and surely.
And I thank United States of America, Mr. President for the new defense package for Ukraine, a very powerful package. Thank you so much, and it has exactly what our soldiers need now.
Fourthly, of the United States, we'll be having Ukraine strengthening our air defense during this winter season.
Fifth,, we agreed on specific steps to expand exports of grain from Ukraine.
And we will continue to work on the peace formula and the preparing inaugural Summit.
So thank you so much, not only for all these points are all these 575 days. Thank you."
As usual, please check against the official transcript.
After the leaders remarks Andrea Shalal asked Zelenskyy if he has confidence that Congress will approve Ukraine new supplemental aid for Ukraine. "I'm counting on a good judgement of the United States Congress. There's no alternative" – said Biden.
After the expanded bilateral meeting Biden chatted with members of his delegation and then went to the Ukrainian delegation. He spoke briefly with Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba and President Zelenskyy.



September 21, 202318:22

Foreign pool report #6 - Zelenskyy left the White House
Ukrainian delegation departed the White House grounds soon after expanded bilateral meeting ended, per the WH press office.
One small clarification, as it wasn't clear from my previous pool report. Andrea's question was directed to Zelensky but he didn't respond, so Biden gave the answer. "I'm counting on the good judgment of the United States Congress. There is no alternative" - he said.
That's all from your foreign pooler.
Thank you.




  