
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Jacksonville, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Florida families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Florida the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
The President's Paycheck Protection Program provided over $32 billion worth of loans to more than 432,000 Florida businesses and saved 3.2 million jobs.
Over 11.1 million Floridians received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $18.3 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing Florida with up to $8.3 billion in assistance to deal with the outbreak and more than $2.2 billion in relief so far to 21,808 health care providers in the state.

Florida businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Florida workers and businesses, and he is doing it again.
Over the last four months, Florida added back 631,600 jobs following the economy's artificial interruptions from the China virus.
Florida added more than 556,000 new jobs in the first three years of the Trump Administration, including more than 10,200 new manufacturing jobs.
In February, Florida's unemployment rate was just 2.8%. During the Obama-Biden Administration, the average unemployment rate in Florida was 8%, nearly three times as high.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to create over 71,504 new Florida jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 427 Florida communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America-First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Florida's economy: 

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Florida's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports $7.1 billion worth of goods to Canada and Mexico each year.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports 750,400 Florida jobs.
The USMCA will boost Florida's agricultural exports, helping the state's farmers and agriculture producers.
President Trump is defending Florida farmers and agricultural producers from China by providing more than $24.9 million in direct USDA payments to offset the damage of China's tariffs.

But Joe Biden's disastrous agenda will decimate Florida's recovering economy and undo President Trump's policies that help Floridians the most:

The terrible trade deals that Joe Biden supported throughout his 44 years in office killed Florida jobs.

Florida lost 28,800 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA.
Florida lost 115,200 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 125,500 Florida jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies would devastate Florida workers and businesses.

The oil, natural gas, and coal industries support more than 273,000 Florida jobs and contribute nearly $23 billion to the state's economy each year.


Biden's government-run health care proposal endangers the private health insurance that 10.4 million Floridians rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 15 of Florida's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.
Meanwhile, President Trump is fighting to give Floridians the best health care in the world at lower prices. In 2020, the average Obamacare premium in Florida decreased.




Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. More than 300,000 students are currently enrolled in 650 charter schools in the state.

  