
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




September 16, 202211:04

SGOTUS Supplemental Pool #1
SGOTUS Supplemental Pool #1
Good morning from the DC Health COVID Center in Ward 6, where the Second Gentleman and Dr. Ashish Jha will receive their updated COVID booster and flu shots to continue raising awareness of the benefits of the new vaccines.
Your pooler and everyone else in the center is wearing a mask, including the SGOTUS and Dr. Jha. The space is fairly quiet this Friday morning - but a steady stream of individuals have come in for their vaccination since your pooler arrived. A staffer at the clinic told me they see about 200 people a day for vaccine appointment.
Updates to come.



September 16, 202211:23

SGOTUS Supplemental Pool #2
Upon their arrival (which happened out of the view of where your pooler was being held, SGOTUS and Dr. Jha greeted clinic staffers and DC government officials, including Dr. Sharon Lewis (Director of DC Health), Dr. Thomas Farley (Sr. Deputy Director DC Health Community Administration), and Patrick Ashley (Sr. Deputy Director of the Health Emergency Preparedness and Response Admin). They are dressed casually, with the SGOTUS in jeans, a blue polo, and LA Dodgers cap. Dr. Jha is wearing a Boston Red Sox cap and a shirt that says "Vaccines Save Lives."
Dr. Jha and the Second Gentleman sat down at two chairs in the center of the room in front of a table with flu and COVID vaccines ready for them.
"I'm very excited about this," SGOTUS said as they prepped his arm with an alcohol swab.
SGOTUS got both vaccines in his left arm, the Moderna booster first, then the flu shot. Dr. Jha got both of his vaccines in the right arm.
After his vaccine, he made some brief remarks, thanking Dr. Jha for coming with him, and saying "that could not have been easier."
"These vaccinations, they work, they're safe, they're free."
"We're here as Dad's. I can't wait for Cole and Ella to get their updated vaccinations."
Pool did ask him about the migrants dropped off outside the Naval Observatory.
"Yea. I do have a reaction. I think it was shameful. These people are human beings. They need to be treated with kindness and respect, and they weren't. And we have so called leaders in this country - rather than focusing on what's good for the public within their own states - they're using people as pawns for a political stunt. I think it's shameful."
SGOTUS and Dr. Jha were then ushered out. They did not say their 10 mins inside the observation area. SGOTUS also took photos with the staff once pool was cleared from the vaccination area.
Tweets with video and photos can be found on my Twitter: @casssemyon
That's all from me here, have a great weekend!




  