
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration and two people to serve as members of the federal judiciary.
The President intends to nominate Thomas M. Sullivan to be chief Counsel for Advocacy at the Small Business Administration. Sullivan has been with the National Federation of Independent Business since 1998 first as Regulatory Policy Counsel and currently as the Executive Director of the NFIB Legal Foundation. From 1994 to 1998, Sullivan served in the Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. Originally from Massachusetts, Sullivan is a graduate of Boston College and Suffolk University Law School.
The President intends to nominate Melanie Sabelhaus to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration. Sabelhaus founded and served as Chief Executive Officer of Exclusive Interim Properties from 1986 to 1997, when the company merged with four other companies and became Bridgestreet Accommodations. She served as Vice President of Global Sales Bridgestreet Accommodations until her retirement in 1998. Before forming her own business, Sabelhaus had a 17-year management career with the IBM Corporation. She is a graduate of Ohio University.
The President intends to nominate William Winkenwerder, Jr., to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs. Currently a health care consultant, Winkenwerder was previously Vice Chairman and Executive Vice President of Health Care Services of Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts. From 1996 to 1998, he was Associate Vice President for Health Affairs and Vice President of Emory Health Care at Emory University, and from 1992 to 1995, Winkenwerder was Vice President and Chief Medical Officer for Southern Operations of Prudential Healthcare. He served with Kaiser Permanente from 1988 to 1992 first as the Director of Quality Assurance and then as Associate Medical Director, and from 1987 to 1988, he served as Special Assistant to the Administrator of the Health Care Financing Administration. A resident of Massachusetts, Winkenwerder is a graduate of Davidson College, the University of North Carolina School of Medicine and the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate William Schubert to be Administrator of the Maritime Administration at the Department of Transportation. He is presently the President of International Trade and Transportation, Inc. in Pinehurst, Texas. From 1986 to 1995, Schubert served with the U.S. Maritime Administration. In 1986 he was appointed Special Advisor to the Administrator and from 1990 to 1995, Schubert served as the Maritime Administration's Regional Representative for the southwestern U.S. From 1984 to 1986, Schubert was the Master and UK Installation Manager of three offshore drilling units and from 1974 to 1984, he was a licensed desk officer with Reynolds Metals Company. Schubert is a graduate of the U.S. Merchant Marine Academy.
The President intends to nominate C. Lawrence Greenwood to have the rank of Ambassador for his tenure of service as Coordinator for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Forum. Mr. Greenwood has held the Coordinator's position since July of 2000 and coordinates all U.S. APEC activities with senior officials from the other 20 APEC countries. From 1996 to 2000, Greenwood held the post of Minister-Counselor for Economic Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo, and from 1994 to 1996, Schubert was the Director of the Office of Bilateral Trade Affairs in the Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs. His previous overseas assignments include service as an economic officer in Singapore, Tokyo and Dakar. He received an undergraduate degree from Eckerd College and received Master's degrees from Tufts University.
The President intends to nominate Clay D. Land to be a United States District Judge for the Middle District of Georgia.
The President intends to nominate Robert R. Crane to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Texas.
  