
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 10*
The President announced his intention to nominate William B. Bader to be Assistant Secretary for Educational and Cultural Affairs at the Department of State.
—— * This item was not received in time for publication in the appropriate issue. ——
September 11
After crossing the international dateline, the President arrived in Auckland, New Zealand, in the morning.
September 12
In the morning, the President met with the America's Cup crew at Hobson Wharf at the New Zealand National Maritime Museum. Later, he had a telephone conversation with Serena Williams congratulating her on winning the U.S. Open tennis tournament.
In the afternoon, the President met with Prime Minister Vladimir Putin of Russia in the Merlion Room at the Stamford Plaza Hotel. The President also met briefly with Prime Minister John Howard of Australia.
Later in the afternoon, the President attended APEC summit meetings at the Carlton Hotel. In the evening, he attended an APEC dinner in the townhall.
September 14
In the morning, the President traveled to Queenstown, New Zealand.
The White House announced that the President will address the 54th Session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York City on September 21.
The President declared an emergency in Georgia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area impacted by Hurricane Floyd on September 14 and continuing.
The President declared an emergency in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area impacted by Hurricane Floyd on September 14 and continuing.
September 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Christchurch, New Zealand, where he toured the International Antarctic Centre.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC. While en route and after crossing the international dateline, the President stopped at Hickam Air Force Base in Hawaii, arriving in the morning of September 15. The President arrived in Washington, DC, after midnight.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ray Martinez as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director for Intergovernmental Affairs at the White House.
The President announced his intention to appoint Sheryl Dicker and Patricia T. Russell as members of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Sally Katzen as Chair of the Interagency Committee on Women's Business Enterprise.
The President announced his intention to appoint C. Michael Armstrong as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
The President declared an emergency in South Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area impacted by Hurricane Floyd on September 14 and continuing.
The President declared an emergency in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 15 and continuing.
September 16
The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 15 and continuing.
September 17
The President announced his intention to appoint Steve Owens as a member of the Joint Public Advisory Committee of the Commission for Environmental Cooperation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Theresa Trujeque as a member or the Advisory Council of the Border Environment Cooperation Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Sheryl Dicker and Patricia T. Russell as members of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation.
The President announced his intention to appoint C. Michael Armstrong as a member of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
The President announced his intention to appoint Sally Katzen as Chair of the Interagency Committee on Women's Business Enterprise.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mary Carlin Yates to be Ambassador to Burundi.
The President declared an emergency in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 16 and continuing.
  