
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the Commonwealth of Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Isabel on September 18, 2003, and continuing.
The President's action makes Federal finding available to affected individuals in the independent cities of Norfolk, Chesapeake, Virginia Beach, Portsmouth, Suffolk, Franklin, Hampton, Poquoson, Newport News, Alexandria, Williamsburg, Hopewell, and Emporia, and the counties of Greensville, Southampton, Northampton, Accomack, Isle of Wight, Sussex, Surry, Prince George, Charles City, James City, York, Gloucester, Mathews, Middlesex, Lancaster, Northumberland, Westmoreland, and Richmond.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding is available to State and eligible local governments in the independent cities of Norfolk, Chesapeake, Virginia Beach, Portsmouth, Suffolk, Franklin, Hampton, Poquoson, Newport News, Alexandria, Williamsburg, Hopewell, and Emporia, and the counties of Greensville, Southampton, Northampton, Accomack, Isle of Wight, Sussex, Surry, Prince George, Charles City, James City, York, Gloucester, Mathews, Middlesex, Lancaster, Northumberland, Westmoreland, and Richmond on a cost-sharing basis for debris removal and emergency protective measures, including direct Federal assistance under the Public Assistance program, at 75 percent Federal funding.
Representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Michael D. Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, Department of Homeland Security, named Louis H. Botta as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
The Agency said that damage surveys are continuing in other areas, and more counties and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are completed.
The Agency said that residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance tomorrow by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362), or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7 a.m. to midnight seven days a week until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  