
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals, designate two individuals and appoint thirteen individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Mary E. Peters, of Arizona, to be Secretary of Transportation. Ms. Peters currently serves as Senior Vice President at HDR, Inc. Prior to this, she served as Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration. Earlier in her career, she served as the Director of the Arizona Department of Transportation. Ms. Peters received her bachelor's degree from the University of Phoenix.
The President intends to nominate Robert K. Steel, of Connecticut, to be Under Secretary of the Treasury (Domestic Finance). Mr. Steel is currently a Senior Director of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Prior to this, he was a Vice Chairman of the firm. Earlier in his career, he worked as co-head of the Equities Division. Mr. Steel received his bachelor's degree from Duke University and his MBA from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Mary Amelia Bomar, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the National Park Service and to appoint her to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the American Folklife Center. Ms. Bomar currently serves as Northeast Regional Director of the National Park Service. Prior to this, she served as Superintendent of the Independence National Historical Park. Earlier in her career, she was Superintendent of the Oklahoma City National Memorial. Ms. Bomar attended Coalville Business College in Leicestershire, England.
The President intends to nominate Larry W. Brown, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for the remainder of a five year term expiring December 18, 2010. Mr. Brown currently serves as Senior Policy Advisor at the Department of Energy. Prior to this, he served as an Associate at Lee F. Holdeman, Chartered. Earlier in his career, he served as a Captain in the United States Navy. Mr. Brown received his bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado, his master's degree from the United States Naval War College and his JD from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate John E. Mansfield, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for an additional five year term expiring December 18, 2011. Dr. Mansfield currently serves as a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board. Prior to this, he served as Associate Administrator for Space Access and Technology at the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. Earlier in his career, he served as a Professional Staff member on the Senate Armed Services Committee. Dr. Mansfield received his bachelor's degree from the University of Detroit. He received his masters' degrees from St. Louis University and Harvard University. Dr. Mansfield went on to receive his PhL degree from St. Louis University and a PhD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Peter S. Winokur, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board for the remainder of a five year term expiring April 2, 2009. Dr. Winokur currently serves as Senior Policy Analyst at the National Nuclear Security Administration at the Department of Energy. Prior to this, he served as an Institute of Electrical & Electronic Engineers Congressional Fellow in the Office of Senator Harry Reid. Earlier in his career, he served as a Manager of the Radiation Technology and Assurance Department at Sandia National Laboratories. Dr. Winokur received his bachelor's degree from the Cooper Union and his master's degree and PhD from the University of Maryland.
The President intends to nominate William W. Mercer, of Montana, to be Associate Attorney General and to designate him Acting Associate Attorney General of the Department of Justice. Mr. Mercer currently serves as United States Attorney for the District of Montana. Prior to this, he served as both United States Attorney for the District of Montana and as Principal Associate Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. Before this, he served as Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Montana. Earlier in his career, he served as a Counselor to the Assistant Attorney General and Senior Policy Analyst at the Department of Justice. Mr. Mercer received his bachelor's degree from the University of Montana, his master's degree from Harvard University and his JD from George Mason University.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board:

  Dennis Bovin, of New York
Martin S. Feldstein, of Massachusetts

The President intends to nominate Charles F. Conner, of Indiana, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Committee for People with Intellectual Disabilities:

  Dallas Rob Sweezy, of Virginia, and upon appointment designate Chair, for an additional two year term expiring May 11, 2008.
Clayton Aiken, of North Carolina
Stephen Bird, of Virginia
Valerie Billmire, of Utah
James Boles, of New York
Stephanie Brown, of Florida
William J. Edwards, of California
Brian J. Kelly, of California
Mary Margaret Pucci, of Illinois
Linda Hampton Starnes, of Florida
Stephen Henry Suroveic, of Pennsylvania
William E. Tienken, of Illinois

  