
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced new additions to the Mayor's foreign policy team. Carlos Eire joins as a member of the Senior Foreign Policy Advisory Board. He is currently the Riggs Professor of History and Religious Studies and Chair of the Renaissance Studies program at Yale University. Joining Eire is Dr. Kenneth Weinstein, Chief Executive Officer of the Hudson Institute, as a Foreign Policy Advisor.
"In an age of great peril, when many American politicians speak of loss, retreat and lowering of expectations, Rudy Giuliani offers hope for a brighter future," said Eire. "He also knows how to respond to immensely complex problems with a clear mind and a steady hand, guided by the bedrock values that make the United States a great nation and a beacon of hope to the world."
"Mayor Giuliani is a principled and visionary leader whose can-do attitude is precisely what America needs in these times," said Weinstein. "He is widely respected around the globe for his ability to devise novel and effective solutions for seemingly intractable problems."
Also joining are Stephen Yates, Senior Asia Advisor; Stephen Haber, Senior Western Hemisphere Advisor; Lisa Curtis, Senior South Asia Advisor; Dr. David R. Cameron, European Advisory Board Member; and Dr. Gerard Alexander, European Advisory Board Member.
Yates said: "The stakes are high in today's world. The American people and the world need the strong management, clear priorities and common sense approach they have come to expect from Rudy Giuliani."
"These distinguished individuals bring additional depth to Mayor Giuliani's already strong foreign policy team," said Bill Simon, Giuliani's Policy Director. "We look forward to continuing to unveil world class advisors as the campaign moves forward."
The advisors join other distinguished experts advising the Mayor on a foreign policy vision that advances the United States as a world leader, while strengthening our reputation around the world, expanding America's involvement in the global economy and keeping our country on the offense in the Terrorists' War on Us.
More About The Additions To Mayor Giuliani's Foreign Policy Advisory Board:
Carlos Eire, Senior Foreign Policy Advisory Board Member
Eire is the Riggs Professor of History and Religious Studies and Chair of the Renaissance Studies program at Yale University. Currently, he leads two lives that seldom intersect. In addition to being a scholar and professor who specializes in late medieval and early modern European history, he is also a spokesman and activist for the liberation of Cuba. In 1962, at the age of eleven, he came to the U.S. without his parents as one of 14,000 unaccompanied children airlifted out of Cuba by Operation Pedro Pan. Although he was reunited with his mother three and a half years later, his father remained trapped on the island for the remainder of his life.
Before joining the Yale faculty in 1996, he taught at St. John's University in Minnesota and the University of Virginia, and resided for two years at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton. He is the author of War Against the Idols, From Madrid to Purgatory, A Brusque History of Eternity, and Reformations: Early Modern Europe 1450-1700. His memoir of the Cuban Revolution, Waiting for Snow in Havana, won the National Book Award for nonfiction in 2003. The Castro regime has declared him an Enemy of the Revolution and banned his books in Cuba.
Kenneth R. Weinstein, Ph.D., Foreign Policy Advisor
Weinstein is Chief Executive Officer of Hudson Institute. He oversees the institute's research, project management, external affairs, marketing and government relations efforts.
Weinstein taught at Claremont McKenna College and Georgetown University and has written widely on international affairs for leading publications in the United States, Europe and Asia. He has been decorated with a knighthood in Arts and Letters by the French Ministry of Culture and Communication as a Chevalier dans l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres. Weinstein serves by presidential appointment and Senate confirmation as a member of the National Humanities Council, the governing body of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
Weinstein's articles and book reviews on public policy topics have appeared in more than 100 publications, including the New Republic, The Wall Street Journal and The Weekly Standard. He graduated from the University of Chicago, the Institut d'Etudes Politiques de Paris and Harvard University.
Stephen Yates, Senior Asia Advisor
Yates is senior fellow in Asia Studies at the American Foreign Policy Council and President of DC Asia Advisory, a Washington, DC-based business consultancy.
Fluent in Mandarin Chinese, Yates has traveled extensively throughout Asia, meeting with government and business leaders in Japan, South Korea, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Vietnam, Singapore, Australia and India. Yates is also a board member of the US-Taiwan Business Council, a sponsor friend of the US-Indonesia Society, and a member of the National Committee on U.S.-China Relations.
Yates served in the White House as Deputy Assistant to the Vice President for National Security Affairs from April 2001 to September 2005. Mr. Yates previously served as Senior Policy Analyst at the Heritage Foundation from 1996 to 2001. He has authored many policy papers on American policy towards China, Taiwan and Hong Kong. He frequently delivers congressional testimony, briefings, television commentary and speeches to policy-makers in the United States and Asia. Yates received the Drs. W. Glenn and Rita Ricardo Campbell Award.
From 1991 to 1996, Mr. Yates served as an analyst at the U.S. Department of Defense. He received a Master's degree in China Studies from the Johns Hopkins University Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies.Yates graduated summa cum laude from the University of Maryland at College Park with a bachelor's degree in Chinese Studies.
Stephen Haber, Senior Western Hemisphere Advisor
Haber is the Peter and Helen Bing Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution. He is also the A.A. and Jeanne Welch Milligan Professor in the School of Humanities and Sciences at Stanford University, where he teaches in the departments of Political Science and History. Haber serves as a Senior Fellow of the Stanford Center for International Development. He is the author, coauthor, or editor of numerous books and articles on the politics and economics of Latin American development, including the forthcoming Mexico Since 1980 and Political Institutions and Financial Development.
Haber holds a Ph.D. in history from UCLA. He has been on the Stanford faculty since 1987.
Lisa Curtis, Senior South Asia Advisor
Curtis is Senior Research Fellow for South Asia in the Asian Studies Center at the Heritage Foundation. Since joining Heritage in August 2006, Curtis has appeared on CNN, BBC, CBS, and FOX News to comment on developments in South Asia and has testified several times before Congressional subcommittees on issues related to Pakistan and the U.S. image abroad.
Before joining Heritage, she was a professional staff member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, where she served as lead expert on South Asia for three years for the Committee Chairman, Senator Richard Lugar (R-IN). From 2001 to 2003, Curtis served as Senior Advisor in the State Department's South Asia Bureau, where she advised the Assistant Secretary on India-Pakistan relations.
Curtis has also served in the Central Intelligence Agency as a political analyst on South Asia and as a political officer to the U.S. embassies in Islamabad and in New Delhi. She also received honors from the CIA for her analytical work on India-Pakistan relations in 1999.
Curtis has a bachelor's degree in economics from Indiana University.
David R. Cameron, Ph.D., European Advisory Board Member
Cameron is a professor of political science at Yale University and the director of the Yale Program in European Union Studies. He received his B.A. from Williams College, an M.B.A. from Dartmouth College, an M.Sc. from the London School of Economics and Political Science and the Ph.D. from the University of Michigan. He has taught at Yale since 1975 and written about such topics as the impact of trade on the size of government, the European Community's pursuit of a single internal market, the creation of its European Monetary System, Economic and Monetary Union, the enlargement of the EU, and the impact of the EU on the development of democracy in post-communist Europe.
Gerard Alexander, Ph.D., European Advisory Board Member
Alexander is a professor of politics at the University of Virginia and a visiting scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. He is author of a book and articles on the conditions for democratic stability and democratization in U.S. foreign policy and is a regular contributor to the Weekly Standard, Policy Review, the National Interest, and other publications.
  