
    Yesterday, Salesforce and the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA) announced support for the climate provisions in the Build Back Better Agenda as the legislation move through the U.S. House of Representatives, echoing President Biden's calls that the climate crisis is a code red that requires bold and urgent action.
Salesforce emphasized the investments will "deliver for the economy" and make "significant strides" towards "decarbonizing the nation's infrastructure, prioritizing high-quality, good-paying jobs, investing in community resilience, and advancing environmental justice." They also outlined their support for the Clean Electricity Performance Program (CEPP), renewable energy tax credits, and the Civilian Climate Corp. The company also reiterated its support for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal, underscoring its commitment to advancing both pieces of legislation and the need for "action, collaboration and investments now to step up to the urgent challenge of climate change."
Additionally, the Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA) – a non-partisan organization representing 270 corporations – endorsed the climate elements Build Back Better Agenda, saying they "would be transformational in putting America on the path to a carbon-free power sector." They also highlighted how the private sector is asking for these investments and signals, noting they support provisions that "drive toward at least 80 percent clean electricity in the power sector are the sort of bold federal ambition the private sector has been waiting for and need."
The endorsements follow other private companies that are supporting the Build Back Better Agenda, including Patagonia, Seventh Generation, and Eileen Fisher. The American Sustainable Business Council, CERES, New Jersey Sustainable Business Council, and Main Street Alliance have had more than 130 businesses join their letter supporting President Biden's Build Back Better Agenda.
Read the full statement from Salesforce below:
Salesforce believes that the United States must take action to avoid the most devastating impacts of the climate crisis. The IPCC's recently released climate report states that the world is 'code red for humanity.' This urgent call for action means that the United States must reduce emissions now to avoid the most devastating impacts of the climate emergency.
Salesforce today announced its support of the climate investments outlined in the proposed reconciliation package, recognizing the critical returns they will deliver for the economy, the climate, and global communities.
Salesforce is committed to the global goal of achieving a just and equitable transition to Net Zero, in line with a 1.5°C degree future. The company also supports the goals of the Paris Agreement and the most recent commitment by the United States to reduce emissions by 50-52% by 2030 and achieve Net Zero by 2050.
The climate-focused elements of the proposed reconciliation package represent significant strides toward delivering on this commitment - decarbonizing the nation's infrastructure, prioritizing high-quality, good-paying jobs, investing in community resilience, and advancing environmental justice to deliver a sustainable future.
Salesforce has been committed to a clean energy future since 2013. The company will meet a target of using 100% renewable energy this year, with a larger, long-term energy goal of building a future where renewable energy is powering the world around-the-clock. In addition, the company is a vocal supporter of the Clean Electricity Performance Program which, along with renewable energy tax credits and needed investments in transmission infrastructure, would create an efficient, 21st Century electricity grid and is expected to place the United States on track to meet an 80% clean electricity target by 2030.
Salesforce also supports the proposed Civilian Climate Corps as an opportunity to create hundreds of thousands of climate jobs and enhance efforts - especially in underserved communities - to fight climate change. From installing solar panels and weatherizing buildings, to building trails and restoring natural ecosystems, to helping prevent catastrophic wildfires, the Civilian Climate Corps would put Americans to work building a sustainable and equitable future.
And, Salesforce recognizes the critical role of enhancing community resilience in the face of climate change. As climate change and sea-level rise accelerate, extreme weather events are becoming more intense and frequent, and communities of color are experiencing the worst impacts of these disasters. A robust investment in coastal restoration and resilience projects would create high-quality, good-paying jobs-coastal restoration work is labor-intensive, with jobs that cannot be mechanized or exported-and sequester carbon, all while protecting coastal communities from the escalating climate crisis.
Nature plays a critical role in combating climate change, which is why Salesforce is committed to conserving, restoring and growing 100 million trees by 2030 in partnership with 1T.org. And is why the company also continues to advocate for investments in conservation, drought, and forestry programs that would sequester carbon emissions, enhance forestry management, and improve wildfire resilience and recovery.
We need action, collaboration and investments now to step up to the urgent challenge of climate change. Salesforce is committed to advancing science-based climate policy - from reconciliation to the bipartisan infrastructure package – that puts the United States on track for a 1.5° future.
It's easy to focus on the cost of climate action, but the increasing severity and frequency of unprecedented, deadly and costly extreme weather events make it crystal clear that the cost of inaction is far higher.
Read the full Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA) statement below: 
The Renewable Energy Buyers Alliance (REBA)—a non-partisan membership organization of 270 corporations generating $6 trillion in annual revenue, employing 14 million people, and deploying 42 GW of renewable energy—supports enactment of the clean energy provisions in the Build Back Better Act (BBB) being put forth in Congress. If enacted, the key clean energy provisions would be transformational in putting America on the path to a carbon-free power sector.
American businesses have voluntarily championed clean energy for over a decade and have become one of the primary drivers of clean energy deployment. Corporate renewable energy customers announced a record 10.6 GW of new projects in 2020, equivalent to 41% of all new carbon-free capacity installed last year. Our members are iconic brands, drivers of job creation, and huge contributors to our nation's GDP and economic health—and they want clean energy.
Both market-based and policy-driven approaches are needed to achieve the fastest, most cost-effective, resilient, and equitable approaches to decarbonize the grid for all, while unlocking the potential of energy customers to accelerate the transition. The Build Back Better package signals the importance of a holistic approach to driving power sector decarbonization:

investment in states to develop and expand organized markets will help to unlock market-driven approaches to decarbonization—over 80% of renewables to date has been in organized markets.
investments in transmission and carbon-free energy technology research, development, and deployment will underpin a lower-cost, reliable transition.
long-term, stable tax incentives for energy storage, clean hydrogen, transmission, and clean energy generation through direct pay and tax equity options makes an investment in America's energy future.
provisions that drive toward at least 80 percent clean electricity in the power sector are the sort of bold federal ambition the private sector has been waiting for and needs.

It is imperative that solutions advanced in this package embrace a structure where energy customers can continue to use their voluntary buying power to accelerate the pace and increase the ambition of grid decarbonization, bringing our 42GW of new renewable energy deployed since 2008 into the hundreds GW of carbon-free energy in the future.
We thank both the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the Ways and Means Committee for their efforts to advance Subtitle D and Subtitle G of the Build Back Better Act (BBB) and look forward to working with Senate Energy and Natural Resources and Senate Finance committee members as the package advances.
REBA will continue to collaborate with Congress, the Administration, and the federal agencies tasked with executing the implementation of the package to advance a carbon-free future. This is the moment for bold federal action that enhances the ability of motivated energy customers, and all electricity customers, to drive clean energy further and faster, while also supporting broader Administration goals of powering the grid with 80 percent clean energy by 2030.
  