
    Rafael Cuellar, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of three years, vice Sheila Anne Smith, term expired.
David Donath, of Vermont, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2004, vice Jeanne R. Ferst, term expired.
Nancy S. Dwight, of New Hampshire, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2005, vice Ayse Manyas Kenmore, term expired.
A. Wilson Greene, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2004, vice Charles Hummel, term expired.
Maria Mercedes Guillemard, of Puerto Rico, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2005, vice Lisa A. Hembry, term expired.
Peter Hero, of California, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2006, vice Alice Rae Yelen, term expired.
Thomas E. Lorentzen, of California, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2006, vice Phillip Frost, term expired.
Terry L. Maple, of Georgia, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2005, vice Townsend Wolfe, term expired.
Peter Marzio, of Texas, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2006, vice Ruth Y. Tamura, term expired.
Elizabeth J. Pruet, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2004, vice David A. Ucko, term expired.
Judith Ann Rapanos, of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2002, vice Kinshasha Holman Conwill, term expired.
Judith Ann Rapanos, of Michigan, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2007. (Reappointment)
Grover Joseph Rees, of Louisiana, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Republic of East Timor.
Edwin Joseph Rigaud, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2002, vice Arthur Rosenblatt, term expired.
Edwin Joseph Rigaud, of Ohio, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2007. (Reappointment)
Harry Robinson, Jr., of Texas, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2003, vice Alberta Sebolt George, term expired.
Margaret Scarlett, of Wyoming, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2007, vice Jerry D. Florence, term expiring.
Michael Scott, of North Carolina, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank for a term of three years, vice Ewen W. Wilson.
Francis X. Taylor, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Diplomatic Security), vice David G. Carpenter, resigned.
Francis X. Taylor, of Maryland, to be Director of the Office of Foreign Missions, and to have the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service, vice David G. Carpenter.
Beth Walkup, of Arizona, to be a Member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 2003, vice Robert G. Breunig, term expired.
  