
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Glenn S. Gerstell - Member, National Infrastructure Advisory Commission
•      Charles "Chip" Lyons - United States Alternate Representative to the Executive Board on the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
President Obama said, "I am honored that these talented individuals have decided to join this Administration and serve our country. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Glen S. Gerstell, Appointee for Member, National Infrastructure Advisory Council
Glenn S. Gerstell is the Managing Partner of the Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP Washington, D.C. office. He also heads the firm's global communications practice and has been active in the firm's international infrastructure financing for over 30 years. A partner since 1985, he previously served as the Managing Partner in the firm's Hong Kong office (1989-1996) and Singapore office (1988-1989). He began his career with the firm in the New York office in 1976. Mr. Gerstell served as the Board Chair of the District of Columbia Water and Sewer Authority from 2001 to 2007. He holds a B.A. from New York University and a J.D. from Columbia Law School.
Charles "Chip" Lyons, Appointee for United States Alternative Representative, Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF)
Charles "Chip" Lyons is the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation. Prior to joining the Foundation in January 2010, he was Director of Special Initiatives in the Global Development Program at the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation from 2007 to 2009. From 1985 to 2007, he worked for the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) holding various positions including President and CEO of the U.S. Fund for UNICEF, Chief of Staff to the Executive Director at UNICEF headquarters, and Program Officer for UNICEF Mozambique. Mr. Lyons has also worked closely with the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization (GAVI), serving on the board and executive committee, and as chair of the executive committee of The GAVI Fund from 2004 to 2006. Mr. Lyons holds a B.A. from Carleton College in Minnesota.
  