
    Throughout National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, we reaffirm our commitment to bring attention to prostate cancer and to better understand the risk factors and early symptoms of this horrible disease. We also renew our Nation's pledge to diligently work to find a cure.
Prostate cancer is the most common form of cancer and the second leading cause of cancer deaths for men in America. Prostate cancer, however, is treatable. Patients diagnosed with a localized or regional stage of prostate cancer have a nearly 100-percent 5-year relative survival rate. It is critical for men of all ages to become familiar with the common signs and symptoms of prostate cancer and to immediately report concerns to a physician or health care provider. Additionally, recognizing the factors that can increase the risk of developing this cancer, such as family history, age, alcohol and tobacco use, and diet, can be beneficial in improving overall health.
My administration is committed to ensuring that our health system works for Americans afflicted by this disease, as well as other serious health conditions. That is why we are taking action to end surprise medical billing and ensure Americans are not burdened by unknown or unforeseen expenses. In June, I signed an Executive Order "Improving Price and Quality Transparency in American Healthcare To Put Patients First," delivering on my promise to bring increased transparency to health care and drug pricing. At my direction, the Department of Health and Human Services is working to make information about out-of-pocket costs more readily available to patients before they receive care while also instructing hospitals to publicly disclose amounts that reflect what insurers pay for services in easy-to-read formats. Together, we will work to ensure patients know the true price and quality of the health care they receive and are given the information they need to make informed choices.
During National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, we continue to support those who are fighting cancer. We are also committed to learning about the common warning signs of prostate cancer and sharing this information with family and friends. Through our collective efforts, we can assist in the early detection and diagnosis of this disease, leading to more optimistic prognoses for our loved ones.
  