
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: It is an inspiring sight to see all of you out here today at this special place coming alongside neighbors and friends.
The Good Book tells us that, the winds blow, the rain comes down, the flood waters rise, but the house does not fall because it's built upon the rock. Thank you for being the rock. (Applause.)
Thank you for bringing your faith and your love of your neighbors to this ministry. I want to -- join me in thanking Pastor Freddy Lagos for his wonderful ministry, his testimony. (Applause.) I think you can do better than that. (Applause.)
Thank you, Pastor. And thank you -- there's several ministries represented here. Join me in thanking all the churches that are involved here and involved in other places across Florida, and join me in thanking Feed the Hungry for being here. (Applause.)
I just left President Donald Trump who sent me here to tell you a simple word, to the people of Collier County, to the people of Florida, we are with you. The American people are with you. We're with you today, we'll be with you tomorrow, and we'll be with you every day until this community recovers and rebuilds bigger and better than ever before. (Applause.)
We will be able to do that because of public support from great leaders like those you just heard from. Senator Marco Rubio, Congressman Diaz-Balart, and Congressman Rooney -- I know they are going to support efforts on an ongoing basis to make sure that Florida and the families of these communities have the resources and support that you need to rebuild. Join me in thanking them in advance for that support and for their great leadership. (Applause.)
I'm confident, as well, because I must tell you -- and I know President Trump feels just the same way -- Florida has inspired the nation. Hurricane Irma did her worst and Florida brought her best. We commend Governor Rick Scott. We commend all the great first responders and law enforcement and public safety who've been there every step of the way. (Applause.)
And we thank you for your courage and your service to this community. We're also proud of all the men and women in uniform and the Coast Guard and Homeland Security and in FEMA who've leaned into the effort to be there for your families.
But let me say to anyone that's looking on, to families that have been impacted by this storm. The American people have not only provided those at every level of government to come alongside, but there are resources available. And if your family has been impacted, or if you know a family that's been impacted, please make sure that they take the opportunity to sign-up at DisasterAssistance.gov.
The easiest way to do it is online or call FEMA's 1-800 number. We've already -- tens of thousands of people have begun to get signed up for the resources that are available.
Our nation has made it possible to provide for families and communities in extraordinary events like Hurricane Irma. And we want you to encourage all of your neighbors and friends.
The need will be great. The support will be there. But it will ultimately -- I truly believe, and it's why the President wanted me to come here today before I return to Washington, D.C. -- the President and I know that ultimately these communities will be rebuilt on the generosity and the kindness of communities of faith and neighbors and friends like all of you that are gathered here today. And I want to thank you for that (Applause.)
We saw it in Texas in the wake of Hurricane Harvey. The President and I have seen it today in the wake of Hurricane Irma, that many of you who -- I know your own homes and your own families have been effected by this storm, but, Pastor, they're still out here. They're still coming alongside neighbors and friends.
Thank you for being the hands and feet of my savior. Thank you for putting your faith into practice. And I just want to encourage you in the days ahead to continue to provide the time and the talent and the treasure necessary. Because I'm confident with the support of the great leadership that you have here in Florida, with the support that we'll all make sure that the American people provide from our nation's capital, with the great work of our law enforcement and public safety community, and with your help and with God's help, the best days for Collier County and all of Florida are yet to come.
Thank you very much for your work and your inspiring efforts. God Bless you all. (Applause.)
  