
    Myrtle Beach on Monday, Sept. 5. Following the format of his previous town halls with presidential candidates, Rep. Scott will take questions from the live audience as well as from online Facebook followers, allowing as many voters as possible to ask Gov. Perry a question.
"I am proud to welcome Gov. Perry to Myrtle Beach to meet our voters," said Rep. Scott. "Since his announcement speech in Charleston just over two weeks ago, the governor has excited our electorate, and I look forward to continuing that conversation."
"I am thankful to Rep. Scott for inviting me to participate in such an important conversation with the people of South Carolina," said Gov. Perry. "Our country cannot afford four more years the current administration's irresponsible and devastating spending policies, and I look forward to sharing my plans to pull our economy out of this financial mess and get America working again."
The location within Myrtle Beach will be announced shortly. The Town Hall will begin at 10 am ET and will last for 1 hour and 20 minutes. Doors will open at 9 am, with seating on a first-come, first-served basis. Gov. Perry is the third candidate to participate in Rep. Tim Scott's "First in the South" Presidential Town Hall Series, which brings 2012 republican presidential candidates to South Carolina for a discussion with grassroots voters.
The series is cosponsored by the Berkeley County GOP, the Beaufort County GOP, the Carolina Patriots, the Charleston County Republican Party, the Charleston Tea Party, the Dorchester County Republican Party, the Georgetown County Republican Party, the Georgetown Patriots, the Goose Creek 9/12, the Horry County Republican Party, the Mount Pleasant 9/12, the Myrtle Beach Tea Party, and the Summerville 9/12.
"Our country is ready for new leadership in the White House. Our Town Hall Series is one step in that direction," said Rep. Scott. "South Carolina has chosen every Republican nominee since Ronald Reagan, so it is important that we get it right."
For more information, or to submit a question to be asked of Governor Perry, please visit:www.timstownhalls.com.
  