
    Presidential Determination No. 89-27
Memorandum for the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce
On August 18, 1989, the Secretary of Commerce exercised his authority under Section 5(f) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (the Act), 50 U.S.C. App. ยง 2404 (f) by determining that prepreg production equipment comparable to that currently requiring a validated license for export from the United States is available in fact to controlled countries from foreign sources in sufficient quantity so that the requirement of a validated export license for national security reasons would be ineffective in achieving its purpose.
Pursuant to the authority vested in me as President of the United States by Section 5(f) of the Act, I hereby determine that national security export controls on this item must be maintained notwithstanding foreign availability because their absence would prove detrimental to the national security of the United States.
I direct the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Commerce, to pursue negotiations with the source countries to eliminate the foreign availability of this item.
I direct the Secretary of Commerce to notify in writing the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affiars of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House ofRepresentatives no later than the commencement of negotiations that such negotiations are being commenced and why it is important to the national security that export controls on this item be maintained.
I delegate to the Secretary of Commerce the authority to extend negotiations to eliminate foreign availability and to maintain export controls on this item for an additional twelve month period beyond an initial six month period if the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, determines and certifies to the Congress that the negotiations are progressing and that the absence of export controls on this item would prove detrimental to the national security of the United States.
I hereby authorize and direct the Secretary of Commerce to publish this Determination in the Federal Register.
GEORGE BUSH
THE WHITE HOUSE,
Washington, September 15, 1989.
  