
    Powered by a Record-Breaking $205 million Raised Online, Campaign, Democratic National Committee, and Joint Committees Raise $364.5 million in August
Today, Biden for President (BFP), the Democratic National Committee (DNC), and their joint fundraising committees announced that they raised a combined $364.5 million in August, which includes over $205 million — or 57% — from online, small-dollar donations. These figures represent the best month of online fundraising in American political history.
Vice President Joe Biden shared the news with his supporters this morning, writing: "In August, together, we raised $364.5 million. That figure blows me away. And we raised it the right way, from people across the country stepping up to own a piece of this campaign, investing in the future we want to see for our kids and grandkids."
He added: "But we're not done yet, there is still much work to do in the 9 weeks ahead. Trump's money machine remains and it's bolstered by outside, dark money -- not grassroots donors like all of you. And you better believe they will pour it all into attacks and smears against me, against Kamala, and against our campaign. Just this week a new Trump Super PAC launched $30 million in new ads full of lies. So we have to keep pushing the limits of what we thought was possible. We have to keep breaking records if we want to ensure a fighting chance at winning this thing."
Last month, more than 1.5 million Americans contributed their first donation to the Biden campaign, which now has over four million donors, and 95% of all donations were from grassroots supporters.
Below is the full message Vice President Biden sent to supporters:
These are difficult times for our country, but in times like this, the American people lean on one another. We're stronger because of it. We accomplish extraordinary things when we come together, it's always been that way.
I have long said that I believe that this is the only way forward -- as a united America. United in our determination to make the coming years bright. After the dark vision of the future that was on display at the Republican convention last week, I think we see more than ever what is at stake in the election, and what is worth fighting for. Our shared values and vision of what this country could be when we choose light over dark and unity over division. And every supporter, every donor on this campaign, has invested in that vision, and our campaign has grown exponentially in the past month because there are far, far more of us than Donald Trump would like you to think.
And it's in that spirit that I wanted to make sure you were the first to know that last month we accomplished an incredible, historic feat, and it was all possible thanks to grassroots supporters like you chipping in a little bit at a time.
In August, together, we raised $364.5 million. That figure blows me away.
And we raised it the right way, from people across the country stepping up to own a piece of this campaign, investing in the future we want to see for our kids and grandkids.
From the very start of August, the campaign had an energy that set us up for this historic milestone. And I wanted to share a few more important numbers with you, because this really means a lot to me:
-- 95% of all donations were from grassroots supporters, folks like yourself chipping in to emails like this. -- More than 1.5 million supporters stepped up and made their first donation in August, and I'm proud to share we're now more than 4 million donors strong. -- Over $205 million, or 57% of the money we raised, came from online donations, from people like you, chipping in $5, $10, $20 at a time. This makes August the best month for online fundraising in political history.
More than anything, these numbers humble me. Even in a global recession, working families set aside some money to power this campaign, and a little bit added up in a big way.
Democrats united in a way that pundits deemed impossible in the primary. When Kamala Harris joined me as my running mate, we were able to continue with this momentum and enter the most unconventional convention with a resolve to make our party, and our country, stronger in the process.
And it was the honor of my lifetime to accept your nomination for President of the United States on August 20, 2020, and that night I made a promise to all of you, to be your President, no matter who you are.
And you all thanked me in the most humbling way imaginable, donating to our campaign in record volumes, making the hour from 11pm to midnight that night the biggest hour for online fundraising in August.
I've said it before and I'll say it again, this campaign is for anyone who has been knocked down and counted out, and stood up stronger. This is your campaign, and you will always have a home here.
And these past few months have tested us, Americans have been hit hard by this pandemic, by this economic crisis, by the systemic racism that haunts our country, and Americans have been let down by their president.
But as Americans you stood up, you rose up to meet this moment and to declare that we are better than Donald Trump and we are better than this.
We did not give into the darkness, or into despair. We did not give up. Because that's not who we are.
We choose hope over fear. And we will not back down from the challenges facing us. And thanks to all of you, to your commitment and your excitement, we met this moment, and we will continue to do so in the next 62 days, as long as we stick together.
So I'm writing today to thank you, and to congratulate you. You did this, every single one of you. This historic achievement belongs to you, as does this campaign.
But we're not done yet, there is still much work to do in the 9 weeks ahead. Trump's money machine remains and it's bolstered by outside, dark money -- not grassroots donors like all of you. And you better believe they will pour it all into attacks and smears against me, against Kamala, and against our campaign. Just this week a new Trump Super PAC launched $30 million in new ads full of lies.
So we have to keep pushing the limits of what we thought was possible. We have to keep breaking records if we want to ensure a fighting chance at winning this thing.
So I have to ask, because there is not a moment to spare, can you help me keep this going? Can we bring this same momentum into the final two months? Because we will need every drop of it, and every dollar, to beat Donald Trump.
Thank you, and God bless you.
Joseph R. Biden Jr.
  