
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

At some point, virtually all of us or members of our families have witnessed or benefited from the life-saving actions of the dedicated members of emergency medical service teams. These skillful Americans richly deserve the gratitude and esteem of all their countrymen, every day of the year and especially during Emergency Medical Services Week.
Those who make up emergency medical service teams—doctors and nurses, medical technicians and paramedics, and educators and administrators, as well as many devoted volunteers and members of law enforcement, fire fighters, and park rangers—work together for all of us. Every day, their knowledge, training, and efficiency help them save lives and care for accident victims and the critically ill. Often, they must work under difficult or even dangerous conditions; but always, they seek and strive to preserve life and health.
The efforts of emergency medical service teams extend also to research into the discovery of new methods and technology for the improvement of their work; to establishment and enhancement of strong professional standards; and to effective public education to reduce loss of life from emergencies, The experienced emergency medical service personnel in our neighborhoods and communities can teach us all a great deal about accident prevention, good health habits, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR), and what to do in medical emergencies.
Let us each be sure to offer all emergency medical service team members our support, cooperation, consideration, and thanks for all they do, day in and day out.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 539, has designated the week beginning September 18, 1988, as "Emergency Medical Services Week" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 18, 1988, as Emergency Medical Services Week, and I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  