
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Politically, economically, and environmentally, our world is changing, and so are our energy choices. Our Nation has been blessed with a wide variety of energy resources. America's diverse climate, geography, and natural resources give us a flexibility unmatched in the world. It is our duty to use our energy resources wisely by increasing energy efficiency, commercializing renewable resources, and developing innovative, clean technologies.
The energy choices we make affect every aspect of our lives. The theme of Energy Awareness Month, 1993, New Energy Choices for a Changing World, highlights the importance of these decisions. In our homes, energy efficient appliances and "green" computers, such as those that qualify under the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Energy Star Program, save us money and help to preserve the environment. On our Nation's highways, powering our vehicles with alternative fuels will help us conserve energy, develop new resources, and reduce our dependence on foreign oil. In our industries, advanced lighting, such as the systems promoted by the EPA Green Lights Program, makes our businesses more efficient, more environmentally sound, and more competitive in world markets. In the coming century, the challenge will be very great to protect our precious environment and produce sustainable economic growth. Our Nation's energy use is a critical and significant part of this challenge. We must work to find more efficient ways to use current resources, and search for new ones.
To encourage each American to join in this effort to improve our Nation's energy future, I urge participation in activities that further our understanding and appreciation of how we can meet energy challenges and contribute to energy solutions in our changing world.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 1993 as Energy Awareness Month.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  