
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced that he has nominated sixteen individuals to the following Federal judgeships.
If confirmed, Ryan Wesley Bounds of Oregon will serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  Ryan Bounds serves as an Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Oregon, where he prosecutes criminal cases on behalf of the United States.  Previously, he was a Special Assistant United States Attorney for the District of Columbia.  Before becoming a Federal prosecutor, Mr. Bounds served as Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy, acting as the White House's primary policy expert on criminal and civil justice issues.   He also served as a Deputy Assistant Attorney General and Chief of Staff in the Office of Legal Policy at the United States Department of Justice.  Earlier in his career, Mr. Bounds practiced commercial law for Stoel Rives LLP in Portland, Oregon.  Mr. Bounds served as a law clerk to Judge Diarmuid F. O'Scannlain on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  He earned his B.A. in psychology and political science, with Honors and Distinction, from Stanford University and his J.D. from Yale Law School, where he was an editor on the Yale Law Journal and Editor-in-Chief of the Yale Law & Policy Review.
If confirmed, Elizabeth L. "Lisa" Branch of Georgia will serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.  Judge Lisa Branch serves on the Georgia Court of Appeals, where she has served since her appointment by the governor in 2012.  Prior to ascending to the bench, Judge Branch was a partner in the commercial litigation practice group at Smith, Gambrell & Russell, LLP in Atlanta, where she began her legal career in 1996.  From 2004-2008, Judge Branch served as a senior official in the Administration of President George W. Bush. During this period, she served for three years as the Counselor to the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs at the U. S. Office of Management and Budget, and for one year as the Associate General Counsel for Rules and Legislation at the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.  Upon graduation from law school, Judge Branch served for two years as a law clerk to Judge J. Owen Forrester of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia. Judge Branch earned her B.A. from Davidson College, cum laude, and her J.D., with distinction, from the Emory University School of Law, where she was inducted into the Order of the Coif and served as the notes and comments editor of the Emory Law Journal.
If confirmed, Gregory G. Katsas of Virginia will serve as a Circuit Judge on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  Gregory Katsas currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Counsel to the President.  Prior to joining the White House Counsel's Office, Mr. Katsas was a partner at Jones Day, where he specialized in civil and appellate litigation.  He has argued more than 75 appeals, including cases in the U.S. Supreme Court and every Federal appellate court.  From 2001 to 2009, Mr. Katsas served in many senior positions in the U.S. Department of Justice, including Assistant Attorney General for the Civil Division and Acting Associate Attorney General.  In 2009, he was awarded the Edmund Randolph award for outstanding service, the highest award bestowed by the Department.  Earlier in his career, Mr. Katsas served as a law clerk to Justice Clarence Thomas, both at the District of Columbia Circuit and the U.S. Supreme Court, and to Judge Edward Becker of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.  Mr. Katsas earned his A.B. from Princeton University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School, where he was an executive editor of the Harvard Law Review.
If confirmed, R. Stan Baker of Georgia will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Georgia. Judge Stan Baker currently serves as a United States Magistrate Judge for the Southern District of Georgia.  Prior to his elevation to the bench, Judge Baker spent a decade in private practice representing a broad range of clients including individuals, small businesses, and large corporations.  Judge Baker litigated a wide range of civil, commercial, and criminal matters in State and Federal courts across Georgia and throughout the country.  Upon graduation from law school, Judge Baker began his legal career in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Georgia, serving for two years as a law clerk to Judge William T. Moore, Jr.  Judge Baker earned his B.A. from Davidson College and his J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of Georgia School of Law.
If confirmed, Jeffrey Uhlman Beaverstock of Alabama will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Alabama.  Jeff Beaverstock is a partner in the Mobile, Alabama, office of Burr & Forman, LLP, where his practice focuses on civil and commercial litigation in State and Federal courts. Before entering the practice of law, Mr. Beaverstock served on active duty for four years as an Airborne Ranger Infantry Officer in the U.S. Army, and has served in the U.S. Army Reserve since leaving active duty.  Mr. Beaverstock currently holds the rank of Lieutenant Colonel in the Judge Advocate General's Corps of the U.S. Army (Reserve) and is the Chief of Contract and Administrative Law for the 377th Theater Sustainment Command.  Mr. Beaverstock earned his B.A. from The Citadel, where he was selected as the Distinguished Military Graduate and as the Most Outstanding Army Cadet. He earned his J.D. from the University of Alabama School of Law, where he served as managing editor of the Alabama Law Review.
If confirmed, John W. Broomes of Kansas will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas.  John Broomes is currently a Member of the Hinkle Law Firm LLC, where he practices in the firm's Business Litigation Group with a focus on natural resources law.  Earlier in his career, Mr. Broomes served as a law clerk to both Judge Monti L. Belot and Magistrate Judge Donald W. Bostwick on the U.S. District Court for the District of Kansas.  Before entering law school, Mr. Broomes was a Lieutenant in the United States Navy Submarine Force, where his awards included the Navy and Marine Corps Commendation Medal and three Navy and Marine Corps Achievement Medals.  Mr. Broomes received his B.S., with high honors, from the University of Texas at Austin.  He received his J.D. from Washburn University School of Law, where he graduated first in his class with a Certificate in natural resources law.
If confirmed, Walter David Counts, III, of Texas will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas.  Judge David Counts currently serves as a United States Magistrate Judge for the Western District of Texas, and as a Judge Advocate in the Texas National Guard, where he holds the rank of Colonel and saw active duty in Afghanistan as part of Operation Enduring Freedom.  Before his elevation to the bench eight years ago, Judge Counts served as an Assistant United States Attorney for the Western District of Texas, rising to serve as Deputy Chief of the Major Crimes Unit.  Before joining the U.S. Attorney's Office, Judge Counts served as an Assistant District Attorney in the Travis County District Attorney's Office and as an associate in private practice.  Judge Counts earned his B.A. from Texas Tech University and his J.D. from St. Mary's University School of Law.
If confirmed, Rebecca Grady Jennings of Kentucky will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky.  Rebecca Jennings is currently a director at the law firm Middleton Reutlinger in Louisville, Kentucky.  Ms. Jennings serves as chair of the firm's litigation practice, and her practice focuses on civil litigation at both the trial and appellate levels in State and Federal courts.  Ms. Jennings began her legal career as a law clerk to Judge William J. Haynes, Jr., of the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee.  She earned her B.A. from Emory University and J.D. from the Washington College of Law at American University, where she served as a senior associate on the American University International Law Review.
If confirmed, Matthew J. Kacsmaryk of Texas will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas.  Matthew Kacsmaryk is Deputy General Counsel to First Liberty Institute, where his practice focuses on religious liberty litigation in federal courts and amicus briefs in the U.S. Supreme Court.  From 2008 through 2013, he served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Texas, where he was lead counsel in over 75 criminal appeals and co-counsel in high-profile criminal and terrorism trials.  In 2013, Mr. Kacsmaryk received the Attorney General's Award for Excellence in Furthering the Interests of U.S. National Security for his work in United States v. Aldawsari.  From 2003 to 2008, he was an associate in the Dallas office of Baker Botts LLP, where he focused on commercial, constitutional, and intellectual property litigation.  In 2005, he received the firm's Opus Justitiae Award for Outstanding Commitment to Pro Bono Work.  He earned his J.D. with honors from the University of Texas School of Law in 2003 and his B.A., summa cum laude, from Abilene Christian University in 1999.
If confirmed, Emily Coody Marks of Alabama will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Alabama.  Emily Marks is a partner in the Montgomery, Alabama, office of Ball, Ball, Matthews & Novak, P.A., where she has practiced since joining the firm as an associate in 1998.  Mrs. Marks specializes in labor and employment law, civil rights law, and appellate practice, and routinely lectures on these topics before employers and other members of the bar.  Mrs. Marks earned her B.A., magna cum laude, from Spring Hill College, and her J.D. from the University of Alabama School of Law, where she served as chair of the John A. Campbell Moot Court Board and as a senior editor of the University of Alabama Law & Psychology Review.
If confirmed, Jeff Mateer of Texas will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas.  Jeff Mateer currently serves as the First Assistant Attorney General of Texas, where he oversees the Office of Attorney General of Texas, including supervision of the State's active litigation matters.  Before entering public service, Mr. Mateer was general counsel and executive vice president of the First Liberty Institute, where his practice focused primarily on defending religious liberty.  This followed nearly 20 years of litigating in private practice, where he handled a range of trial and appellate matters.  Mr. Mateer earned his B.A. with honors from Dickinson College and his J.D. with honors from Southern Methodist University School of Law.
If confirmed, Terry F. Moorer of Alabama will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Alabama.  Judge Terry F. Moorer currently serves as a Magistrate Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Alabama, a position he assumed in 2007.  Before assuming his judgeship, Judge Moorer served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Middle District of Alabama, as a Command Judge Advocate in Camp Arifjan, Kuwait, and as an attorney in the Office of Staff Judge Advocate in Fort Rucker, Alabama.  Judge Moorer earned his Associate of Arts from the Marion Military Institute, his B.A. from Huntington College, and his J.D. from the University of Alabama School of Law. 
If confirmed, Matthew Spencer Petersen of Virginia will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia.  Matt Petersen is currently a Commissioner on the Federal Election Commission.  He was unanimously confirmed to that position by the United States Senate in 2008, and served as the Commission's Chairman in 2010 and 2016 and as its Vice Chairman in 2009 and 2015.  Before joining the Commission, Mr. Petersen served as Chief Counsel to the United States Senate's Committee on Rules and Administration and as Counsel to the United States House of Representatives' Committee on House Administration.  Earlier in his career, he practiced election law at Wiley Rein & Fielding LLP.  Mr. Petersen earned his B.A., magna cum laude, from Brigham Young University, where he was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, and his J.D. from the University of Virginia School of Law, where he was a member of the editorial board of the Virginia Law Review.
If confirmed, Fernando Rodriguez, Jr., of Texas will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas.  Fernando Rodriguez currently works as a field office director in the Dominican Republic for International Justice Mission, where he leads efforts to combat sex trafficking of children.  Mr. Rodriguez's work has contributed to the rescue of more than 110 victims and 21 convictions of the perpetrators.  Mr. Rodriguez previously led similar efforts against the sexual abuse of children in Bolivia.  Before joining International Justice Mission, Mr. Rodriguez was a partner in the Dallas office of Baker Botts LLP, where his practice focused on commercial litigation.  From 1997 to 1998, he served as a briefing attorney for then-Justice Nathan L. Hecht on the Supreme Court of Texas.  Mr. Rodriguez earned his B.A. from Yale University and his J.D. with honors from the University of Texas School of Law.
If confirmed, Karen Gren Scholer of Texas will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas.  Karen Scholer is a principal and serves as the co-managing partner in the Dallas law firm of Carter Scholer PLLC, where her practice focuses on complex business, tort, and other civil litigation in State and Federal courts.  Before joining the firm, she was a partner at the law firm of Jones Day.  In 2000, she was elected, and in 2004 reelected, by the people of Texas to serve for eight years as a State District Judge in Dallas County, where she presided over thousands of cases, including more than 100 cases tried to jury verdict.  In 2007, she also served as the Presiding Judge for the Dallas County Civil District Judges.  Ms. Scholer has been identified as one of the Top 50 Women Lawyers in Texas by Thomson Reuters' Super Lawyers, and she has received awards for professional excellence from a number of Asian-American community and service organizations. Ms. Scholer earned her B.A. from Rice University and her J.D. from Cornell University Law School.
If confirmed, Brett Joseph Talley of Alabama will serve as a District Judge on the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Alabama.  Brett Talley serves as Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Department of Justice's Office of Legal Policy.  Before joining the Department of Justice, Mr. Talley served for two years as the Deputy Solicitor General in the Alabama Attorney General's Office. Prior to joining the Alabama Attorney General's Office, Mr. Talley served as a speechwriter for U.S. Senator Rob Portman and as a Senior Writer for Mitt Romney's Presidential campaign.  Earlier in his career, Mr. Talley served as an associate in the Washington, D.C., office of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, as law clerk to Judge Joel F. Dubina on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, and as a law clerk to Judge L. Scott Coogler of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Alabama.  Mr. Talley earned his B.A., in philosophy and history, summa cum laude, from the University of Alabama, where he was inducted into Phi Beta Kappa, and his J.D. from Harvard Law School, where he served as an articles editor of the Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy.
  