
    To the Senate of the United States:
I transmit herewith, for the purpose of receiving the advice and consent of the Senate to ratification, the Panama Canal Treaty and the Treaty Concerning the Permanent Neutrality and Operation of the Panama Canal, which I signed on behalf of the United States at the headquarters of the Organization of American States on September 7, 1977. I also transmit, for the information of the Senate, the report of the Department of State with respect to those Treaties.
When ratified, the Treaties will establish new arrangements for operating and defending the Panama Canal, and for ensuring its continuing neutrality and accessibility to all shipping. These objectives will be achieved through a new, cooperative relationship between the United States and Panama under which the United States will continue to operate the Canal until December 31, 1999. After this period of preparation, Panama will assume control of Canal operations, with the United States sharing permanent responsibility for maintaining the Canal's neutrality.
The Treaties serve the essential interest of the United States in an efficient and safe Canal. They permit a new relationship with Panama based on friendship and mutual respect. Moreover, they remove a major obstacle to the betterment of our relations with the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean area, and will substantially improve our standing with other nations, particularly those of the developing world.
I believe that these Treaties are fair to both countries, consistent with our heritage, and right for our times. They protect United States interests in the Panama Canal for the future better than the 1903 Convention which they will replace. Undue delay in ratification could cause serious problems for our foreign relations and jeopardize our long-term interests in the Canal and in the Hemisphere. Accordingly, I urge the Senate to give these Treaties early and favorable consideration.
JIMMY CARTER
The White House,
September 16, 1977.
  