
    Pool Reports by S.V. Dáte, HuffPost 



Sent:
Reports:




September 21, 202209:29

WH travel pool report 1
Good morning from a beautiful almost-autumn morning Manhattan, where the pool has been swept and is now awaiting departure of President Biden's motorcade for the short drive to the United Nations building on the East River.
The president is scheduled to address the UN General Assembly and meet with the secretary general and then with the new UK prime minister to start his day.
Per the trip guidance from the WH last night:
9:15 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
10:35 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks before the 77th Session of the United Nations General Assembly
United Nations Headquarters, New York, New York
Out-of-Town Pool
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in a bilateral meeting with United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres
United Nations Headquarters, New York, New York
Out-of-Town Pool Spray
1:15 PM THE PRESIDENT hosts a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Liz Truss of the United Kingdom
United Nations Headquarters, New York, New York
Out-of-Town Pool Spray
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks at the Global Fund's Seventh Replenishment Conference
583 Park Avenue, New York, New York
Out-of-Town Pool
7:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host a Leader's Reception
American Museum of Natural History, New York, New York
Out-of-Town Pool



September 21, 202210:11

WH travel pool report 2 - entourage list
Pool is still holding in the press vans outside the hotel, but the WH just released this:
Traveling with the President by motorcade en route United Nations Headquarters:

Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor
Ambassador Jane Hartley, United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Kate Bedingfield, Assistant to the President & Director of Communications
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Ambassador Rufus Gifford, Chief of Protocol for the United States
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives
Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs
Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Europe
John Kirby, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications
Ariana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor
Charlie Fromstein, NSC Director of Visits and Diplomatic Affairs




September 21, 202210:47

WH travel pool report 3 — motorcade to UN
The presidential motorcade was underway at 1046, heading east toward the UN building.
Pool did not see POTUS leave the hotel or get in the car, as it was covered by a giant white tent. We did, however, see the little flags on the hood, and can report that he is in the heavily armored Cadillac, not the heavily armored SUV.
It is only a few blocks away, and we should arrive shortly.



September 21, 202211:00

WH travel pool report 4 — arrival at UN
The motorcade arrived at the UN building at 1051.
The president was already out of his limo as the pool was hustled out of the vans, onto the complex, inside, up two flights of stairs and into a viewing room giving on to the general assembly room.
Waiting on Biden speech now, which you can watch on the WH web site and possibly on cable channels.
Motorcade uneventful. Streets lined by onlookers with cell phones. A woman with a hand made sign about Russia being a nuclear terrorist state. A small band of anti-Biden protesters.



September 21, 202211:10

WH travel pool report 5 — Biden on podium
The president took the podium at 1108, and began his remarks immediately.
Within seconds, he began speaking about Russian's invasion of Ukraine.
His speech is available here:
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=uw_aEfQQzso



September 21, 202211:39

WH travel pool report 6 -- Biden speech finished
The president finished his remarks at 1137, which he read from a pair of teleprompters to the left and right of the black marble lectern, having spent the first part of his 29-minute speech criticizing Russian dictator Vladimir Putin's invasion of Ukraine.
A couple of quotes:
"This war is about extinguishing Ukraine's right to exist as a state, plain and simple."
"That should make your blood run cold."
"Like you, the United States wants this war to end. On just terms."
"The only country standing in the way of that is Russia."
Biden also spoke about his commitment to showing that democracy can deliver for its citizens, in the ongoing struggle against autocracy.
He said the US supports the expansion of the UN Security Council with more permanent members, and said his administration is working to combat climate change (mentioning the flooding in Pakistan as an example) and touted his just-passed law to encourage alternatives to fossil fuels.
He also spoke about the US working on global food security and health programs.
"If parents cannot feed their children, nothing else matters."
He touched on the economic competition between the US and China, and said the US continues to hold the "One China" policy and opposes any changes to the status quo.
He said the US supports Israel as well as a two-state solution.
He urged all nations to abide by the nuclear non-proliferation agreement, said the US will not allow Iran to develop a nuclear weapon, and criticized Russia for its most recent "irresponsible" statements about nuclear weapons.
"A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought."
He expressed support for the protesters in Iran standing up for women's rights, and said the US supports basic human rights around the world, and closed with praise for the UN's mission.
"Let's stand together."
"The nations of the world are united still."
"We are not passive witnesses to history. We are the authors of history."
Please check quotes against transcript or video/audio recording.



September 21, 202212:11

WH travel pool report 7 – bilat with Sec General Antonio Guterres, no major quotes
Pool was led into a meeting room at 1156 where the president was seated beside UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres speaking about climate change.
Biden was asked if he had anything to say regarding Putin's remarks about nuclear weapons, and he said, "Listen to my speech, read my speech." Asked if had anything more to say: "Nope."
He was also asked if he could elaborate on the One China policy given his remarks about defending Taiwan but he did not answer (It's possible he did not hear the question, as we were being encouraged to leave the room.)
He said what he said in his speech was "not hyperbole," and that flooding in the Caribbean was already happening. He said things were so bad now that even longtime climate deniers are realizing there is a real problem.
Pool was led out at 1158.
The president was speaking extremely quietly, but pool will listen through to see if any quotes are discernable.



September 21, 202212:35

WH travel pool report 7A
The WH press office shares this:
Participating in a bilateral meeting with President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and António Guterres, United Nations Secretary-General:
U.S. Manifest

T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Michele Sison, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organizations
T.H. Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs, NSC
Mr. Jeffrey Prescott, Deputy to the United States Ambassador to the United Nations
Ms. Rabia Qureshi, Director for Multilateral Affairs, NSC

United Nations Manifest

Ms. Amina Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General
Mr. Courtenay Rattray, Chef de Cabinet
Mr. Volker Turk, Under Secretary-General for Policy
Ms. Rosemary A. DiCarlo, Under Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs
Mr. Martin Griffiths, Under Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator
Ms. Rebecca Gyrnspan, Secretary-General, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
Mr. Miguel Graca, Special Assistant to the Secretary-General




September 21, 202212:57

WH travel pool report 7B -- rough log of bilat from Our Friends in TV
Courtesy TV pooler Nancy Cordes, who had better audio:
ROUGH LOG:
Biden: -in Russia. And there's so much more we can do I think. We're prepared but it wasn't a hyperbole what I was suggesting when I spoke. There- I think that, you know, great polluting nations of the world like ours owe an obligation to the nations that are suffering the consequences of global warming. You know, you see all saw the recent reports The seas are gonna rise as much as three feet in the next several decades. I mean, that's gonna put a lot of the Caribbean underwater, for example. And there's things we can do now. And when I think I mentioned this to you before, when we had one of our G7 meetings, I suggested we set up a a build back better initiative worldwide, where we don't only go into countries and help them but we're looking for $600 billion among us to be able to have them build the infrastructure they need to protect their physical capacity to survive. I think we can do that's going to take some real focus. Senator Kerry's still continuing to try to generate some cooperation with China, which was started I hope we get back on track in a major way. There's just a whole lot of things that I think we have the capacity to do. But then again, who's- one friend of mine who is neurosurgeon said my problem is I'm a congenital optimist, but I am optimistic. I think we can make things better I think. I think that- Don't you all agree that all of a sudden in the last- this past year, all the climate deniers would Oh, my God. Look what's happening. It's hard to be denier anymore. So I think it presents enormous opportunities on the climate side and on the security side, the physical security side, anyway. Talking too much.
Secretary-General Guterres: Do you mind now please leave us.
Q: Mr. President, do you have any reaction to President's announcement about a partial mobilization of troops?
Biden: You didn't listen to my speech. Go read my speech.
Q: I saw it. Anything else you want to share about his sudden decision?
Biden: Nope.
Many thanks.



September 21, 202213:54

WH travel report 8 -- bilat with UK Prime Minister Liz Truss, Northern Ireland statements
Both the president and PM Truss spoke of the life and funeral of the late Queen Elizabeth 2, of the war in Ukraine and the unified response to it, and energy and economy security for Britain, and, finally, the one issue on which the two may not see eye to eyet the status of Northern Ireland post-Brexit.
Biden, at the end of his brief statement in the presence of the pool, said: "We are both committed to protecting the gains from the Good Friday Agreement in Northern Ireland and I look forward to hearing what's on your mind and how we can continue to cooperate."
Truss said: "And of course, I'm looking forward to discussing the Belfast Good Friday Agreement, and how we make sure that's upheld into the future."
The press office sends this re the meeting with PM Truss:
Participating in a bilateral meeting with President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. and Prime Minister Liz Truss of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
U.S. Manifest
T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateAmbassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, U.S. Ambassador to the United NationsT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Jane Hartley, United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern IrelandT.H. Karen Donfried, Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian AffairsT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, NSCT.H. Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential Coordinator
United Kingdom Manifest
Sir Timothy Earle Barrow, National Security AdvisorMr. John Bew, Foreign Affairs Adviser, 10 Downing StreetMr. Adam Jones, Director of Communications, 10 Downing StreetMr. Max Blain, Prime Minister's Official SpokespersonMr. Simon Billet, Private Secretary to the Prime MinisterMr. Toby Parker, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister
Also, the WH press office sends this:
From a before the bilateral with the UN Secretary General:
Participating in a pull-aside with the President and Csaba Korös, President of the United Nations General Assembly:
Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield, U.S. Ambassador to the United NationsJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor



September 21, 202215:29

WH travel pool report 9 -- en route to Global Fund conference
The president's motorcade is moving at 1528, en route to the Global Fund conference on Park Avenue up near the park, about a mile and a half away.
His remarks are scheduled for 1600 and will be streamed through the WH web site:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=50q_6lLiGhU



September 21, 202215:41

WH travel pool report 10 — arrival at Global Fund event
The president's motorcade traveled back west and then north to the venue, driving up a closed off Lexington Avenue, north on the normally southbound one-way.
The crowds of onlookers lined the barricades, many holding up phones, many more presumably eager for us to pass so they could cross the street and get on with their day.
At 1535 pool got out of the vans and walked to the building from two blocks away. The president was already there and the pool was led to their spots.
We are inside and awaiting the start.



September 21, 202215:51

WH travel pool report 11 — global fund color
The location, 583 Park Ave, is an auditorium type building with a balcony level.
The floor is set up with 20 long tables, with rows of chairs behind them. All the seats appear to have a headset for multilingual interpreting.
There is a stage at the front with two lecterns. The one unused right now has two teleprompters, one on either side.
The Global Fund was originally set up to combat HIV specifically, but has since added tuberculosis and malaria to its mission.
Today's event is the "Seventh Replenishment Conference."



September 21, 202216:00

WH travel pool report 12 — Macron meeting
Per the WH press office:
Participating in a pull-aside with the President and President Emmanuel Macron of France:
U.S. Manifest

T.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State
T.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
T.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe, NSC
T.H. Amos Hochstein, Special Presidential Coordinator

France Manifest

H.E Catherine Colonna, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs of the French Republic
H.E. Philippe Etienne, Ambassador of the French Republic to the United States
Admiral Jean-Philippe Rolland, Chief of the Military Cabinet
Mr. Emmanuel Bonne, Diplomatic Advisor
Ms. Alice Rufo, Deputy Diplomatic Advisor

Also per the WH press office:
The President is delivering remarks at the Global Fund's Seventh Replenishment Conference.
The Global Fund's Seventh Replenishment Conference brings together governments, civil society, and the private sector to take bold action toward the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria.
Program:

President Emmanuel Macron of France
Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany
Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan
Prime Minister Justin Trudeau of Canada
President Ursula von der Leyen of the European Commission
Bill Gates
The President




September 21, 202216:38

WH travel pool report 13 — running behind
The program here is running behind. French president Macron started speaking in French a few minutes ago, and Biden is seventh, per the guidance from the WH earlier.



September 21, 202217:04

WH travel report 14 – Biden takes the stage
The president climbed onto the stage at 1703, following remarks by the leaders of France, Germany, Japan, Canada, the president of the European Commission, and billionaire Bill Gates, all of whom announced pledges to the Global Fund programs.
His speech is being carried by the White House web site, available here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=50q_6lLiGhU
PS – note that the last pool report erroneously had the number 14 initially. That was 13. This is 14. Your pooler apologizes for Losing Track.



September 21, 202217:13

WH travel pool report 15 -- Biden remarks done
Biden finished his remarks at 1708. He praised the program for saving 50 million lives to date, and "dramatically" lowering mortality rates from diseases in developing countries.
He pledged $6 billion from the United States, $1 billion for every $2 billion pledged by others.
"I ask you to keep it going. Let's finish this fight together."
He and the other leaders then assembled on stage for a photo.
Pool is being led back to the motorcade at 1713.



September 21, 202217:28

WH travel pool report 16 — motorcade back to hotel
The line of limos, SUVs and vans left the Conference site at 1720 returned to the Hotel Intercontinental at 1725, after a drive of about a dozen blocks, shutting down Lexington Avenue again, this time in rush hour.
Pool, as is normal, was unable to get to the doors before POTUS was out of view, but we reasonably believe he is at the hotel.
Pool is now holding for the day's final event this evening.



September 21, 202218:19

WH travel pool report -- SAO briefing -- Russia nuclear threat won't work, etc.
A senior administration official spoke to the pool on condition of anonymity for 27 minutes.
The official hit a host of different topics, the most pressing is probably Russia.
The SAO said Putin's new "playing the nuclear card" was similar to remarks he had previously made, is now based on a "legalistic" construct he is presenting that if these "sham" referendums pass, then any attempts by Ukraine to retake those territories will be seen as an attack on Russia itself, allowing it to use all options.
"It is not an act of confidence, in fact, it is an act of weakness."
"We're sending very clear messages to Russia about the consequences of escalation.... That doesn't mean that we're blind to the dynamics that could lead to escalation."
The SAO said that other countries are not going to buy Putin's "absurd" arguments on this.
"The play he is running here is not going to succeed."
One or two more quotes to follow (but pool has to leave here in 10 minutes, so don't get your hopes up.)
The WH intends to send transcript out tomorrow AM.



September 21, 202218:25

WH travel pool report 18 -- Another SAO quote
The SAO, on condition of anonymity, said that Putin was making another "legalistic" justification for his war with his latest threat: "Sort of a bizarro Russian version of Article 5."
"So there is, in our view, one world, the fictitious Russian legal world, and then there is the real world."



September 21, 202219:03

WH travel pool report 19 — motorcade to reception
The president's motorcade at 1903 is underway to the final event of the day, a leader's reception for the 77th session of the United Nations General Assembly.
It is at the American Museum of Natural History, on Central Park West, about 2 and a half miles from the hotel.
It is closed press.



September 21, 202219:13

WH travel pool report 20 — arrival at leaders reception
CThe president's motorcade again rumbled along closed off streets and avenues of Manhattan, the barricades lined with people holding cell phones.
There is a General Assembly session each year, and most of the onlookers seemed unexcited by the motorcade's passage.
We cut across Central Park and arrived at the museum at 1912.
The reception is closed press.



September 21, 202219:46

WH travel pool report 20A -- greeters at museum
From the WH press office:
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at American Museum of Natural History:
Ellen Futter, President of the American Museum of Natural HistoryLisa Gugenheim, Director of the American Museum of Natural History



September 21, 202219:36

WH travel pool report 21 -- SAO more quotes on Russia
Closing out the earlier reports re Russia and Putin's new threats:
The SAO said the US would not change it's commitment to arming Ukraine to defend itself, and that Putin's latest actions show "desperation" and are an "act of weakness."
"This is another episode in what has been a series of episodes over the course of this war where Putin is trying to rattle his saber trying to scare us off trying to make us think twice about our strategy. He has not succeeded before he won't succeed now, but that doesn't mean that, you know, we're blind to the dynamics that could relate to escalation and that we weren't thinking carefully through in close consultation with our allies and with Ukrainians how we would deal with that."
On the drones Russia bought from Iran:
The SAO said no one has ever claimed that these weapons are not lethal.
"This is a serious weapon just as the weapon it's intended to replace, which is the precision guided munitions that the Russians have depleted was a serious weapon."
"But we do not believe that, you know, that Russia can through the acquisition of arms from Iran you know, fundamentally alter its strategic circumstance on the battlefield."
Remaining topics to come ASAP.



September 21, 202220:08

WH travel pool report 22 -- more quotes, from topics from SAO
Here is a more expansive rundown of what the SAO said on various topics:
On Northern Ireland and his conversation with UK Prime Minister Liz Truss:
"It was a candid discussion, in which the Prime Minister laid out her view and the President made very clear what he said publicly, which is that protecting the Good Friday Agreement and the gains of the Good Friday Agreement is a matter of bipartisan importance in the United States and a matter of personal importance to him as president. And he was very clear about that.
"The Prime Minister read out to him her conversations on the subject with both Ursula von der Leyen and with the Taoiseach. And I think the two of them left understanding each other well, and now we'll see how things develop with respect to potential discussions."
Q: Sounds like nothing changed?
"She, I think, sounded a constructive note about her arrangements with both the European Union and the Republic of Ireland. And now we have to see where they go. This was not a set to. There was a suggestion that there should be able to be a way forward here and now we have to see whether that plays out. I don't mean we the United States. I mean, we the US, the UK, the EU. The Republic, the people of Northern Ireland. This now has to proceed."
Q: Did he say no trade treaty between the US and UK if this gets blown up?
"No. He did not say that."
On Taiwan, the SAO said that neither Truss nor Macron raised any concerns about Biden's recent remarks about helping Taiwan militarily if it comes under attack.
"This is a significant issue, the potential for instability in the Taiwan Strait and what it could mean for security in the Indo Pacific and for the global economy. I mean, this is going to be an issue that the president talks about."
On the coming Italian election:
"Whoever ever ends up as the new prime minister of Italy, the president will have to have an early conversation and take the measure of that person and make a determination about what it's going to mean."
"We do not believe that no matter how this turns out, Italy is somehow going to drop out of the Western coalition of countries supporting Ukraine. And I don't think our key partners in Europe believe that either, so that doesn't mean it's going to be exactly the same as it was under Draghi. But I think this kind of sky is falling narrative out there about the Italian election doesn't square with our expectations of what's likely to unfold."
On a meeting Biden had with South Korean President Yoon Suk-yeol, the SAO confirmed that had a "pull-aside" with him at the Global Fund event and that the WH would produce a readout shortly.
On the Philippines' new president, Bongbong Marcos, the SAO confirmed that Biden would be meeting with him Thursday in New York prior to his departure.
"This will be his first opportunity to meet with President Marcos. He spoke with him briefly on the phone and night that he was elected."
"We'll talk about South China Sea by talking about the security relationship between the US and the Philippines and the full breadth of issues in the alliance."
On enlarging the UN Security Council, the SAO said a lot of details need to be worked out, but that generally Biden supports the idea.
"We have historically and continue to stand behind the idea that Germany, Japan and India should be permanent members of the Security Council and then the question is, for the announcement today that the United States supports the Latin American Caribbean country and an African representative."
On World Bank President David Malpass's comment re whether climate change was real.
The SAO had not fully researched the circumstances of the remarks but said: "it obviously raises eyebrows."
Your pooler thanks co-poolers Steve Holland, Eli Stokols and Anita Powell for help with this project.
Again, the WH intends to send out the transcript tomorrow morning.



September 21, 202220:58

WH travel pool report 23 – museum departure
At 2057, the president's motorcade is rolling for the final time today on its way back to the Intercontinental Hotel from the American Museum of Natural History, where Biden hosted a leaders reception for world leaders in town for the General Assembly session.
The event was closed press, but the pool hold was in a pretty cool astronomy exhibit, which included a giant iron-nickel meteorite which pool was admonished not to touch.
We should be back at the hotel shortly.



September 21, 202221:10

WH travel pool report 24 — return to RON hotel and lid
President Biden's motorcade returned to the hotel at 2107. The crowds along the barricades were somewhat smaller, but equally non-plussed.
Again, pool did not see the president get out of the limo, as we are at the tail end of a long string of vehicles and end up walking the final few hundred yards or more, and by the time we get to the door, the president has long since entered.
That is all.
It has been a joy serving as your UNGA print pooler today.
A la prochaine fois.




 
Pool Reports below by Kethevane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




September 21, 202211:49

Foreign pool report #1 - Guterres bilat background
Antonio Guterres, UN Secretary General
Hello all,
I'll be your foreign pooler for the President's bilateral meeting with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres.
Here's some background ahead of the meeting which was scheduled for 11:45am (but is running a little late.
Meetings:The 2 leaders last had a formal in-person meeting during the 76th UNGA a year ago (though they did see each other most recently at the Summit of the Americas in LA in June.)
At the time, their conversation focused on "the defense of democracy and the rules-based international order" as well as the COVID-19 pandemic, climate change, and food security.
Priorities for bilat:His team said they didn't discuss topics publicly ahead of the meeting.
Context: Here are the SG's opening words while kicking off the session:
"Our world is in big trouble. Divides are growing deeper. Inequalities are growing wider. Challenges are spreading farther."
And his criticism of geopolitical divides:
"Even the various groupings set up outside the multilateral system by some members of the international community have fallen into the trap of geopolitical divides, like in the G-20. At one stage, international relations seemed to be moving toward a G-2 world; now we risk ending up with G-nothing.
No cooperation. No dialogue. No collective problem solving.
But the reality is that we live in a world where the logic of cooperation and dialogue is the only path forward.No power or group alone can call the shots.
No major global challenge can be solved by a coalition of the willing.
We need a coalition of the world."
Full remarks
https://www.un.org/sg/en/content/sg/statement/2022-09-20/secretary-generals-address-the-general-assembly-trilingual-delivered-follows-scroll-further-down-for-all-english-and-all-french
Here are some quotes from Guterres' press conference previewing the 77th UNGA:
"The General Assembly is meeting at a time of great peril. Our world is blighted by war, battered by climate chaos, scarred by hate, and shamed by poverty, hunger, and inequality. Geostrategic divides are the widest they have been since at least the Cold War. They are paralysing the global response to the dramatic challenges we face."
Full press conference:
https://press.un.org/en/2022/sgsm21454.doc.htm
Schedule:On Tuesday morning, Guterres gave the opening remarks for the 77th session of the UNGA.
He set to meet with dozens of world leaders over the week.
Bio:António Guterres is 73 years old. He's been Secretary General of the UN since 2017, succeeding Ban Ki-Moon. (The first European to hold the position since 1981.)
He was reelected to a 2nd term in June 2021.
Prior to that, he served as the UN High Commissioner for Refugees from 2005 to 2015.
Guterres served as Prime minister of his home country Portugal from 1995 to 2002.
Delegation:Deputy SG, Amina Mohammed (former Nigerian Minister of Environment)Chef de Cabinet, Courtenay Rattray (former Jamaican ambassador to the UN)Under Secretary-General for Political Affairs Rosemary DiCarlo (former acting US Ambassador to the UN)Under Secretary-General for Policy Planning, Volker Turk (just appointed as High Commissioner for Human Rights)Secretary-General of the UN Conference on Trade and Development, Rebeca Grynspan (former Vice-President of Costa Rica)Head of Office for the Secretary-General, Miguel Graca



September 21, 202212:04

Foreign pool report #2
Pool was ushered in at 11:55am as POTUS was already speaking (and very hard to hear.)
When POTUS wrapped his remarks, the SG immediately asked for the press to be escorted out.
I've asked if the pool missed Guterres' remarks but it doesn't look like it.



September 21, 202212:52

Foreign pool report #3 - Liz Truss background
Next up, is the President's bilateral meeting with UK Prime Minister Liz Truss scheduled for 1:15pm.
Meetings:
The 2 leaders spoke on the phone on September 6, just after Truss became PM. Among other things, they discussed the war in Ukraine, China, the Iran nuclear deal as well as "the importance of reaching a negotiated agreement with the European Union on the Northern Ireland Protocol."
They also took part in the September 8 video conference between allies & partners on Ukraine. (This was just a few hours before news of the Queen's passing was announced.)
As foreign secretary, she accompanied her predecessor, Boris Johnson to the White House a year ago.
There was some confusion about when this first official bilateral would take place. The UK had announced Sunday in London, which was never confirmed by the WH. Instead, both sides agreed on Wednesday in NY, saying it would give the 2 leaders more time.
Priorities for bilat:
On her way over to NY, Liz Truss herself said her "number one issue" for the meeting with Biden was "global security & making sure that we are able to collectively deal with Russian aggression." Another priority is to make sure "we are not strategically dependent on authoritarian regimes."
"I want to work with our allies like the United States, like France, the EU, the Baltic States, Poland to take on the challenge we face from Russian aggression. That should be our priority."
Context: 
US & UK are mostly in agreement on major global issues, like holding a tough line on Russia, support for Ukraine or containing China.
But the biggest sticking point is the Northern Ireland protocol. This is the deal agreed by the EU & the UK after Brexit, putting in place customs checks on goods transported from the British mainland to Northern Ireland, in order to keep the border between North & South open, in line with the Good Friday agreement.
Truss as Foreign Secretary led efforts to unilaterally scrap parts of the protocol.
Biden has repeatedly expressed his strong support for the GFA and the NIP.
Truss also said the following about a possible US/UK free trade deal, which was touted by her predecessors as one of the biggest potential benefits of Brexit:
"There aren't currently any negotiations taking place with the US, and I don't have an expectation that those are going to start in the short to medium term." She added that her trade priorities were deals with India and the GCC as well as accession to the Comprehensive and Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership.
Schedule:
Truss will be giving her speech on Wednesday afternoon.
On Tuesday, She met with French President Emmanuel Macron. (No 10 said the topic of the NIP was not discussed).
This morning, she held a meeting with European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen on Wednesday.
Meetings with the leaders of Turkey, Spain and Israel are also expected.
Back in the UK over the weekend, she met the PMs of Australia, New Zealand, Canada, as well as the Polish President. She also met with the Irish Taoiseach, Micheál Martin. (He said it was not the time to get into the detail of issues like the Northern Ireland Protocol since it's "a moment of national mourning in the UK.")
Bio:
Liz Truss is 47 years old. She became PM on September 6, after winning the Conservative Party leadership vote, replacing Boris Johnson who resigned. She was the last British PM to be appointed by Queen Elizabeth.
She's been a conservative MP since 2010 and has served in several cabinet positions, most recently as Foreign Secretary under Johnson.
She initially campaigned for the UK to remain in the EU, but embraced Brexit after the referendum.
She joined the Conservative Party in 1996. She grew up in a left-leaning household and identified as a Liberal Democrat at University.



September 21, 202213:53

Foreign pool report #4 - Bilat & Truss quotes
POTUS spoke first, ending his remarks by telling the UK PM "We both are committed to protecting the rules of the Good Friday Agreement and Northern Ireland. And I'm looking forward to hearing what's on your mind."
Truss started by thanking POTUS & FLOTUS for attending the Queen's funeral.
"We're very grateful for all the support that you've given us over what have been 2 very difficult weeks in the UK."
"We are steadfast allies"
"We face huge challenges as autocracies seek to cement & increase their assertiveness around the world"
"We want to work more closely with the US, especially on energy security, on our economic security, but also in reaching to fellow democracies around the world to make sure that democracies prevail and that we protect the freedom & future of our citizens."
"Of course, I'm looking forward to discussing the Belfast Good Friday Agreement and how we make sure that's upheld in the future."
Please check quotes against tape



September 21, 202216:04

Foreign pool #5 - Macron pull-aside
We are at a new location for the Global Fund replenishment summit, where POTUS is set to give remarks.
The President was set to meet with French President Emmanuel Macron ahead of the Global Fund conference.
There was quite a bit of back and forth about whether this meeting would happen, when and in what format.
The French side told your pooler this morning it would be a closed press pull-aside before the Global Fund and have just gotten word that they are currently speaking (per French official)
Since there was initially a possibility for a bilateral, I prepared a background, so here it is:
Priorities for bilat:
Here's an exchange with a reporter from this morning (per a French official)
Reporter: Mr President, what do you expect from your meeting with Joe Biden this afternoon?
Emmanuel Macron
"We will speak about war for sure, first. We're very much in line. But I think we'll coordinate
in this period of time, precisely to be more efficient and to enlarge the group of people calling
for a cease fire and increasing the pressure on Russia. Second, I think we have to improve our
coordination in terms of energy and food. And definitely, we need to secure gas supply, but we need to secure reasonable pricing as well. And third, we'll speak as well about bilateral issues."
Meetings:
The 2 leaders have spoken on the phone multiple times.
Most recently they spoke on August 21, during a joint call with allies regarding Ukraine.
Their last one-on-one call dates back to April 25, a day after Macron's reelection, when POTUS called to congratulate the French President.
They saw each other at the G7 & NATO summits before the summer, but their last formal in-person meeting was on October 29, 2021, at the French embassy to the Holy See.
Context: 
The two leaders have been in close contact over Ukraine, especially in the weeks following the start of the war. They also held several group calls with other allies. France & the US have been united when it comes to supporting Ukraine or sanctioning Russia. But Macron has been more willing to engage with Vladimir Putin. He met with the Russian President in Moscow in early February before the start of the war. He's also held multiple calls since then (the last one on sept 11). In June, he said "We must not humiliate Russia so that the day when the fighting stops we can build an exit ramp through diplomatic means." During his speech on tuesday he said "I stand by the dialogue conducted with Russia."
This meeting also comes about a year after the AUKUS deal, which triggered a diplomatic crisis between the US and France. Franco-American relations reached a historic low point after the surprise announcement in mid-September '21 of the security partnership between the US, UK and Australia. France said it was blindsided by the deal but also angered by the way it came about. Paris reacted strongly by recalling its ambassador to the US for the very first time.
Then-Foreign minister Jean-Yves LeDrian said in an interview: "What concerns me as well is the American behavior (…) This brutal, unilateral, unpredictable decision looks very much like what Mr. Trump used to do… Allies don't do this to each other… It's rather insufferable."
During the October bilateral in Italy, POTUS said: "I think what happened was — to use an English phrase, what we did was "clumsy." It was not done with a lot of grace. I was under the impression certain things had happened that hadn't happened(…) I was under the impression that France had been informed long before that the deal was not going through. I, honest to God, did not know you had not been."
Schedule:
Macron gave his speech to the UNGA on Tuesday.
"On Feb 24, Russia, a permanent member of the security council, by an act of aggression, of invasion & annexation, broke our collective security. It deliberately violated the UN charter & the principle of sovereign equality among states."
"What we've been witnessing since Feb. 24 is a return to the age of imperialism and colonies."
"Those who remain silent today, unwillingly or maybe with a form of complicity, serve the cause of a new imperialism, which breaks down our international order without which peace is not possible."
On Tuesday he had several bilateral meetings:
UK PM Liz Truss (Ukraine was high on the agenda but Northern Ireland Protocol was not)
Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi (That was Raisi's first head-to-head with a major Western leader since he was elected last year.)
After the meeting Macron told reporters: "the ball is in Iran's court" (about a possible nuclear deal)
Pakistani PM Shehbaz Sharif
Earlier this morning he had a working meeting on food security with Senegalese President Macky Sall (who is also the current Chair of the African Union) and co-hosted the Christchurch call summit with New Zealand's Jacinda Ardern ( they announced an international effort to understand how algorithms behind popular social media websites can drive people to more extreme content, potentially radicalizing them.)
He also had a meeting with Chile's President Gabriel Boric & IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi.
Bio:
Emmanuel Macron is 44 years old. He was first elected in May 2017, becoming at 39, the youngest ever French President. He was reelected to a 2nd term this past April.
Although he had been a member of the Socialist Party earlier in life and served under a Socialist President, he ran on a centrist, pro-European movement En Marche, which he founded a year prior to the Presidential election.
Before running for President, Macron served as Economy Minister from 2014 to 2016 under Socialist President Francois Hollande. Before serving in government, Macron was a senior civil servant as well as an investment banker.



September 21, 202216:11

Foreign pool report #5b
It looks like my previous email took about 15minutes to go through.
Apologies for the delay (and therefore some not so fresh info)



September 21, 202217:08

Foreign pool report #6 - foreign leader quotes
POTUS was seen shaking hands with German chancelor Scholz & European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen (who will also be speaking) before the event started.
French President Macron stepped on stage at 4:28pm to cheers.
"this fund has made its mark. But let's not turn our eyes away because we are very far from winning the battle."
"We still have a lot to do"
"By 2030, HIV, tuberculosis & malarial must have disappeared."Round of applause when he announced France's investment (each leader was met with cheers when they announced their respective pledges to the Global Fund)
"We must do everything we can so that our world doesn't get divided by the pandemic."
He wrapped at 4:40pm (speaking in french)
German Chancellor Scholz started at 4:41pm and spoke for about 2mn in english)
"resilient, and sustainable health systems are the cornerstone for fighting infectious diseases, such as AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria.
But they are also the prerequisite for equitable access to health services, as well as preventing and responding to any other future pandemics"
He announced Germany would contribute 1.3 billion euros to the global fund.
4:44pm Japan PM Kishida
4:49pm Canada PM Trudeau speaking both in english and french
"We are living through a dark and stormy time where things can seem so soft. But when I look at what we've done together In the face of diseases like HIV AIDS, which, for decades, ravaged communities. What I see is hope. What I see is proof that our institutions can work well. And then as leaders as government, we have what it takes to heal and help people."
4:53pm President of European Commission Von der Leyen (english)
" COVID-19 not only caused millions of deaths around the world. It has also a devastating impact on our health systems, especially in low income countries. And I therefore welcome the prospect of the Global Fund to work even harder on the resilience of health systems."
"Now, Justin (Trudeau) you set the bar high - 30% - Okay!
This will bring the total (share) of team Europe, that is the European Union, the Commission and the member states to over 4.3 billion euro."
5pm Bill Gates introduced POTUS, who started speaking at 5:03pm.
As always, please check against tape.



September 21, 202217:23

Foreign pool report #7
Per French official, POTUS meeting with Macron lasted 45mn.




  