
    Pool Reports by Chris Johnson, Washington Blade



Sent:
Reports:




 September 29, 2020 10:10

 In-town pool report #1 
>From the White House:
On Background from a White House Official:
On Tuesday, September 29, 2020, the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC), in collaboration with the White House, will be launching the "Safety Pledge" campaign to combat online child exploitation that often leads to the evil of child trafficking. This initiative aims to provide free resources to help parents, educators, and other caregivers learn more about the risks that children face online and bring awareness to the dangers of child trafficking.
All resources for the campaign will be located on the Safety Pledge website. The site will include a toolkit filled with safety tips, fun activities and conversation starters to help parents, teachers and caregivers guide children on how to navigate the online world. It will also include "The Safety Pledge," that invites everyone to publicly commit to learning more about online safety, sharing what they've learned with others, and teaching children how to stay safe online. Signatories are encouraged to share the pledge with at least two others whom they know.
As a part of the Trump administration's concerted efforts to combat the scourge of human trafficking, Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump, Attorney General William Barr, and Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Chad Wolf will represent the administration with remarks and a pledge signing during a webinar sponsored by the website. Following the principals' remarks, NCMEC will lead a training about the risks children face online and provide practical tips to safeguard children from online exploitation.
Over the past few months, NCMEC has witnessed a dramatic increase in reports of child sexual exploitation. With many children being educated remotely this fall and increased use of social media and gaming platforms, there are increased opportunities for predators and traffickers to groom and recruit minors and. It is essential that we work together to keep children safe online and out of the vicious cycle of trafficking and abuse About the National Center for Missing & Exploited Children (NCMEC): NCMEC is a nonprofit with decades of experience finding missing children, reducing child sexual exploitation, and preventing future victimization. It operates the CyberTipline, a platform for the public and service providers to report incidents of online child sexual exploitation.
Key Stats: · Reports of online child exploitation to NCMEC's CyberTipline have increased as much as 126% during COVID-19. · Over 50% of domestic minor sex trafficking survivors interviewed in a recent NGO study met their traffickers via a website, app or text. Background on Trump Administration Efforts to Combat Human Trafficking and Online Child Exploitation: · Department of Justice Grants to Combat Human Trafficking o Last week, the Department of Justice awarded OVER $101 million investment in grants to combat human trafficking, the largest package in U.S. history. This funding provided critical resources to support victim service providers, strengthen human trafficking task forces, and provide unprecedented victim housing assistance across the nation. · Executive Order on Combating Human Trafficking and Online Child Exploitation in the United States (Jan. 31, 2020): HERE (https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44f...)  o President Trump signed this Executive Order during the White House Summit on Human Trafficking, Honoring the 20^thAnniversary of the TVPA. This Executive Order created the first-ever White House employee position focused solely on combating human trafficking in the United States; established an internal working group at the Department of Health and Human Services to identify more housing for human trafficking survivors; and directed the Department of Justice and Department of Homeland Security to fund programs aimed at prevention in our Nation's schools. o Another key directive in the Executive Order tasked DOJ and DHS with proposing legislative and executive actions that "would overcome information-sharing challenges and improve law enforcement's capabilities to detect in real-time the sharing of child sexual abuse material on the internet, including material referred to in Federal law as 'child pornography.'" · Voluntary Principles to Counter Online Child Sexual Exploitation and Abuse (March 2020): HERE (https:/www.justice.gov/opa/press-release/file/1256061/download) o The White House, DOJ, DHS, and public officials with the Five Country Ministerial and tech companies (including Facebook, Google, Microsoft, Roblox, Snap, and Twitter) established voluntary principles to reduce online child exploitation. These principles act as a framework to guide the digital industry in their efforts to combat child sexual abuse material.
Expected Participants: Ivanka Trump, Advisor to the President William Barr, Attorney General of the United States Chad Wolf, Acting Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security John Clark, President and CEO, National Center for Missing & Exploited Children Callahan Walsh, Director, Strategic Advancement, National Center for Missing & Exploited Children Angeline Hartmann, Director of Communications, National Center for Missing & Exploited Children 


 September 29, 2020 10:24

 In-town pool report #2 
Good morning from the White House!
I'll be your in-town print pooler today. It's mostly cloudy and 73 degrees in Washington, D.C.
Both in-town and out-of-town pool have taken the customary COVID-19 test. No news is good news on that front.
On POTUS' schedule, of course, is the highly anticipated debate with Joe Biden tonight in Cleveland. Your in-town pooler will handle the departure from the South Lawn this afternoon and any Q&A with POTUS, then hands things off to the out-of-town pool. If anything changes, I'll let you know. 


 September 29, 2020 10:47

 In-town pool report #3 — No WH briefing today 
?Kayleigh McEnany, following a TV appearance this morning on Fox News, declined to take questions from reporters gathered on Pebble Beach in anticipation of a gaggle.
Asked as she was headed back to the West Wing if she'd answer a few questions, McEnany said, "Big night tonight, guys. Got to run," referring to the upcoming debate.
In response to another question on she'd hold a WH briefing today, McEnany said, "No briefing today. All debate." 


 September 29, 2020 14:22

 In-town pool report #4 - POTUS departs, No Q&A 
?POTUS, wearing a dark suit and striped tie, emerged from the South Portico at 2:15 with FLOTUS and greeted cheering supporters on the South Lawn who chanted "U-S-A! U-S-A!" as he headed for Marine One.
Ignoring a shouted question from a reporter on to who he owes money to, POTUS gave a wave to pool, then continued on to Marine One, but not before giving his supporters a fist bump, prompting more cheers.
POTUS boarded Marine One at 2:16. Among the officials who followed was Dan Scavino. Marine One lifted from the South Lawn at 2:19.
Handing things off to the out-of-town pooler. 


 September 30, 2020 00:40

 In-town pool report #5 
?Due to a bad weather call, pool was motorcaded to Joint Base Andrews for the post-debate arrival. Air Force One touched down at 12:22.
Motorcade started rolling at 12:39. No sighting of POTUS among those exiting Air Force One in the rainy night. 


 September 30, 2020 01:06

 In-town pool report #6 - lid 
?Motorcade arrived at the White House at 1:03. The White House promptly called a lid.
No sighting of POTUS, although his Twitter account was very active on the return trip. 




Pool Reports below by Morgan Chalfant, The Hill



Sent:
Reports:




 September 29, 2020 14:35

 Out of town travel pool report #1 
Marine One landed at JBA at 2:27 p.m. President Trump and first lady Melania Trump disembarked at 2:31 p.m. The president waved to the pool but did not come over to talk. The president was followed by Dan Scavino and a few other staffers your pooler did not recognize.
Pool spotted Donald Trump Jr. aboard the plane.
COS Mark Meadows arrived before the president and briefly chatted with reporters before Marine One arrived. He said that some of the president's guests for the debate would be on the plane but he did not name names. He said that Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden each have 20 tickets to give guests. He also said Trump was done preparing for the debate and that he was in a good mood.
We're headed to Cleveland, Ohio, for the first presidential debate between Trump and Biden.
The debate will take place at the Cleveland Clinic's Sheila and Eric Samson Pavilion at Case Western Reserve University's health education campus. We're headed there first for a brief stop, according to White House guidance, and will thereafter travel to the InterContinental Suites Hotel Cleveland for a few hours before the debate at 9 p.m. ET. 


 September 29, 2020 14:38

 Out of town pool report #2 
?Another note on folks aboard: Members of the pool also spotted Lara Trump, Eric Trump, Tiffany Trump, and Kim Guilfoyle aboard Air Force One. Also spotted boarding was Alice Johnson.
At 2:37 pm we are taxiing for take off. 


 September 29, 2020 15:33

 Out of town pool report #3 — arrival in Cleveland 
Air Force One touched down in Cleveland at 3:31 pm.
A senior Trump campaign official came back to chat with the pool briefly during a rather bumpy flight. The official said that Trump is ready for the debate and would not be doing any last minute prep on the plane."He's ready to go."
The official expects Trump's taxes to come up first thing during the debate.
The official also said that others guests at the debate will include UFC fighter Colby Covington and Rudy Giuliani.
The official said not to expect a statement on Brad Parscale today when asked about the situation. 


 September 29, 2020 15:53

 Out of town pool report #4 
President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump deplaned at 3:52 pm. The president gave a thumbs up to the pool.
Pool also spotted NSA Robert O'Brien, Bill Stepien, Hope Hicks, Jim Jordan and Ivanka Trump deplaning.
The White House passes along the following:
The President is met by the following aboard Air Force One:
State Representative Bernadine KentJames WhitakerBob Paduchik
We are loading into vans and heading to the Cleveland Clinic. The brisk air here is a welcome change from humid Washington. 


 September 29, 2020 16:26

 Out of town pool report #5 — venue arrival 
??The motorcade arrived at the venue at 4:23 pm after an uneventful ride. Several police officers and a few onlookers snapping photos on their phones lined the route as we pulled up to the pavilion where the debate is being held. Pool is currently holding in vans. 


 September 29, 2020 16:46

 Out of town pool report #6 — leaving venue 
?Motorcade started rolling again at 4:42 pm. We're now headed to the hotel. 


 September 29, 2020 16:51

 Out of town pool report #7 
?We arrived at the hotel just minutes after we left the venue. Pool cannot see the Beast but did catch a glimpse of Hope Hicks, Bill Stepien and Dan Scavino getting out of a van and walking toward the back side of the hotel. 


 September 29, 2020 17:13

 out of town pool report #8 -- holding at hotel 
The pool is holding at the InterContinental Suites Hotel. We're scheduled to be here until 8:35 pm this evening, at which point we will move back to the debate venue. 


 September 29, 2020 20:06

 Out of town pool report #9 
?The White House passes this along:
"Today, Judge Amy Coney Barrett met with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and Chairman Lindsey Graham of the Senate Judiciary Committee among others, as part of the Senate confirmation process. With respect to the meetings, Judge Barrett spoke about her judicial philosophy and family experience. In addition to the meetings, Judge Barrett submitted her Senate Judiciary Questionnaire today and looks forward to the continued progression of this process." Judd Deere 


 September 29, 2020 20:28

 Out of town pool report # 10 - leaving hotel 
Pool loaded into vans around 8:15 pm. As we waited, pool spotted Rudy Giuliani entering one of the vans for guests
As of 8:27 pm, motorcade is rolling to the debate venue. 


 September 29, 2020 20:39

 Out of town pool report #11 
The motorcade arrived at the debate venue at 8:32 pm. Pool did not see the president when we arrived. We're outside awaiting guidance to go in. 


 September 29, 2020 20:56

 Out of town pool report #12 
?Pool entered the pavilion and walked past the debate stage to a closed-off room with desks and TV screens where we will be watching the debate for its duration. I'll direct you to the supplemental pool for color from the debate area. 


 September 29, 2020 22:41

 Out of town pool report #13 
At 10:40pm, we are moving out of the debate venue. 


 September 29, 2020 22:48

 Out of town pool report #14 
?Motorcade is rolling back to the airport as of 10:47pm. Pool did not see the president enter his car, though we did catch a glimpse of the candidates on the debate stage as we were ushered out of the venue back to the vans. 


 September 29, 2020 23:21

 Out of town pool report #15 
?Motorcade arrived at the airport at about 11:15 pm. Your pooler did not get a glimpse of President Trump as he entered the plane.
We are wheels up shortly headed back to JBA. 


 September 30, 2020 00:23

 Out of town pool report #16 — JBA arrival 
?Air Force One was wheels up in Cleveland at 11:28pm and touched down at JBA at 12:22am.
The flight was uneventful, but turbulent, with no visitors to the press cabin. 


 September 30, 2020 00:39

 Out of town pool report #17 
?President Trump and first lady Melania Trump disembarked AF1 at 12:36am. The president did not stop to talk to reporters. They are motorcading back to the White House.
Your pooler spotted Rudy Giuliani, Eric Trump, Lara Trump and Kimberly Guilfoyle disembarking AF1 also.
Handing off to in-town pool. Have a good night, everyone. 




Pool Reports below by Anita Kumar, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




 September 29, 2020 19:26

 Supplemental debate pool report #1 
?Greetings from Cleveland.
A small supplemental pool will be seated in the audience for the first presidential debate tonight between President Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden.
Your pooler was able to get into the debate venue early to see the set and stage that was constructed in the atrium of the Sheila and Eric Samson Pavilion, a joint project of Case Western Reserve University and the Cleveland Clinic.
There are two dark lecterns for Trump and Biden to stand behind and a wide desk for moderator Chris Wallace. A large eagle with a banner reading Union and the Constitution Forever" hangs over the stage. The carpet on the stage is deep blue with white stars.
There are rows of wooden chairs, seated on red carpet, for the smaller-than-usual audience. Some seats have signs that say "Thanks for not sitting here in observance of social distancing" (though it appears family members will be seated next to each other). Each seat has an orange program and a pack of anti-bacterial wet wipes courtesy of C-SPAN.
Only a few seats are marked with names – First Lady Melania Trump, Ivanka Trump, Donald Trump Jr. Eric Trump, Tiffany Trump, Lara Trump, Kimberly Guilfoyle, Rep. Jim Jordan, Mark Meadows, Phoebe Meadows and Blake Meadows. None of the seats are marked on the Biden side.
Peter Eyre, senior advisor for the Commission on Presidential Debates, said about 80 people will sit in the audience. They include the candidates' family members, campaign staff, hosts, health and security officials and journalists, he said.
TV networks have set up a spot for standups overlooking the venue. Signs have been erected that say "Covid-19 Safety Reminders: Wear Facemask Maintain Physical Distance of 6 feet" with the 2020 presidential debate logo.
The modern, glassy building is home to dental, nursing and medical students. It was opened last year and was converted temporarily to a Covid hospital. Outside the building, huge dark blue banners marked the occasion: "Welcome to the presidential debate.
Attendees must undergo a maze of security and temperature checks to get into the debate venue. All attendees also were tested for Covid at the Cleveland Clinic prior to their arrival.
Your pooler will tweet some photos @anitakumar01 


 September 29, 2020 20:38

 Supplemental debate pool report #2 
?Doors opened to the audience at 7:30 pm and people began to trickle in.
Before being told interviews are not allowed, your pooler briefly interviewed two guests.
Sean Kilbane, 37 of Charlotte, NC., who was wearing a bright red MAGA facemask, said he got a ticket to the debate through the Trump campaign which was searching for veterans to attend. He served two tours in Afghanistan in 2008-2009 and 2011-2012."The veteran community is so overwhelming thankful, at least everyone I know, for everything that President Trump has done that when the campaign was looking for some veterans to be here to represent this portion of the populace that President Trump has worked so hard for somehow I got picked to be here."Kilbane said he not met Trump but supported him in 2016 and again this year. He is involved in Facebook Vets for Trump and Veterans for Trump and organizes volunteers in Charlotte for Trump.
Bobby Dove, 33, of Niceville, Fla., who served in Afghanistan in 2012 and has a prosthetic leg, met President Trump several weeks ago when he was at Walter Reed. He voted for Trump in 2016 and said he likes his style."I kind of like people that get to the point. I think it's better to know how people are feeling."Dove said he doesn't believe the Atlantic article that reported Trump said service members who died are losers. "I have a very hard time believing that's contextually accurate."
Also spotted: UFC fighter Colby Covington, who was not wearing a mask. He declined to speak to your pooler after an unidentified man seated next to him told him not to.
Two more seats have been marked: Ronna McDaniel and Jill Biden 


 September 29, 2020 20:54

 Supplemental debate pool report #3 
?Commission on Presidential Debate and host officials have taken the stage.
Most seats that are supposed to be filled are filled. It doesn't appear the candidates' families are in the room.
?Your pooler will send reports when possible. We've been asked not to file during the event. 


 September 29, 2020 21:05

 Supplemental pool report #4 
?President Donald Trump and former Vice President Joe Biden took the stage at 9:05 pm.
Just before the debate began, you could hear the networks begin their coverage.
I neglected to mention earlier but the room is very very cool. 


 September 29, 2020 21:29

 Supplemental debate pool report #5 
?The audience has been largely quiet - except for a couple coughs.
But when Biden said sarcastically that the first debate segment had been productive, some did laugh.
There are a few video monitors set up so people in the back half of the atrium can watch.
Most people in the audience are wearing masks, but not at all.? Some staff are standing on either side of the room. 


 September 29, 2020 22:08

 Supplemental debate pool report #6 
When Biden said to Trump "Try to be honest" a few minutes ago in one of the many exchanges, there was some soft laughter in the audience.
But most of the time, the only sounds were the clicking of the photographers' cameras. (And of course the three men talking over each other.)
Occasionally, when there was a zinger or tough exchange, audience members looked at each other but silently.
Your pool is seated in the back of the room. Trump's voice is generally much much louder, booming throughout the atrium. Biden can be heard but it's not loud. 


 September 29, 2020 22:43

 Supplemental debate pool report #7 
At 10:38 pm, the debate ended.
The candidates were joined by their wives and left the room two minutes later.
The audience clapped and stood up.
Two members of the audience called out what sounded like "we love you Trump!"
One more tidbit from earlier:
Biden's voice got very loud when he spoke over Trump about Beau Biden.
"He was not a loser!" he said
And his volume continued when he spoke about Hunter Biden.
"This is simply not true!" 



  