
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced that Ron Silver is supporting Mayor Rudy Giuliani for President. As an advisor to the Mayor's campaign, Silver will help promote the Mayor's 12 Commitments to the American People and aid the effort to continue growing strong support across the country for Mayor Giuliani.
Silver, a veteran actor, is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and on the Board of Directors for the United States Institute of Peace.
"Rudy had a tremendous impact as Mayor of New York City, a place I am proud to call home," said Silver, a native New Yorker. "His record of accomplishment is extraordinary and his vision will serve America well. He is committed to keeping our nation on the offense in the Terrorists' War on Us, and I am proud to support him."
Mayor Giuliani said, "Ron serves as a great advocate for freedom both at home and abroad. He's a great asset to our team and I'm proud to have him serve as an advisor to the campaign."
Silver joins actor Robert Duvall, who endorsed the Mayor yesterday.
About Ron Silver:
Ron Silver currently is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He supported President George W. Bush's successful 2004 reelection, including speaking at the 2004 Republican National Convention. In 2005, President Bush nominated him to the United States Institute of Peace, where he currently serves on the Board of Directors. He is also a member on the Program Committee on the Wilson Council of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
In 2002, the U.S. State Department sent Silver to China to represent former U.S. Secretary of State Colin Powell at ceremonies commemorating 9/11. Silver piloted a State Department program called Cultural Connect, which sends Goodwill Ambassadors abroad.
Silver is also a veteran actor, having starred in films such as the Academy Award-winning Reversal of Fortune as well as Red Mercury Rising, and he appeared as Henry Kissinger in the critically-acclaimed Kissinger and Nixon.
He served as the President of Actors' Equity Association for nine years (1991-2000) and is the Founder and President of The Creative Coalition.
Silver earned his first Emmy nomination for his role in television's The Billionaire Boys Club. He has appeared in television series such as Chicago Hope and The West Wing, where he received an Emmy Award nomination. He won Broadway's Tony Award and a Drama Desk Award for his performance in Speed the Plow.
Silver attended law school and received a Master's Degree in Chinese History. He also did social work and taught high school, and he trained as an actor with Herbert Berghof and Uta Hagen before studying with Lee Strasberg at the Actors' Studio. Silver is a resident of New York.
  