
    With momentum building in New Hampshire, lifelong educator says Richardson is the only candidate who can bring both change and experience
MANCHESTER, NH -- The Richardson for President campaign today received a key endorsement from one of New Hampshire's top Democrats, former Manchester Mayor Bob Baines. Baines will take on an active role in the Richardson for President campaign as one of five co-chairs of the New Hampshire Steering Committee.
Democrat Bob Baines was Mayor of Manchester from 2000 to 2006. He was named one of New Hampshire's "Ten Most Powerful People" by Business NH Magazine in 2004 and 2005. Baines currently serves as Interim President of Chester College of New England.
Baines said his decision came down to a simple question: Which candidate can bring both change and experience to Washington?
"In the race for President, there are a few candidates with experience, and there are a few others who represent change," Baines said. "Bill Richardson is the only candidate who can bring both change and experience to the White House."
A lifelong educator, Baines praised Richardson for making education a cornerstone of his Presidential campaign.
"Bill Richardson consistently and credibly talks about issues like establishing a federal pre-kindergarten program and instituting a minimum wage for teachers to attract the very best and brightest individuals to the profession," Baines said. "As Governor of New Mexico, Richardson has expanded full-day kindergarten, made pre-kindergarten available for thousands of four-year-olds, increased the number of highly-qualified teachers, and banned junk food in schools. These innovative ideas and tangible accomplishments are resonating with parents and educators across New Hampshire."
Baines served as Principal of Manchester High School West from 1980 to 1999. Prior to that, he was a music teacher and later assistant principal at Alvirne High School in Hudson. Baines has been honored as Principal of the Year by the New Hampshire Association of School Principals and Educator of the Year by the Manchester Chamber of Commerce. More recently, Baines served as Executive-in-Residence at Southern New Hampshire University.
Born in Manchester, Baines has deep roots in the Granite State. Baines received an Education Degree in Music from Keene State College and a Master's Degree in School Administration from Rivier College in Nashua. He also did graduate study work at the University of New Hampshire. Baines lives in Manchester with his wife Maureen, and he has three children and two grandchildren.
  