
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 22
William B. Bader,
of New Jersey, to be an Associate Director of the U.S. Information Agency, vice John P. Loiello.
Eljay B. Bowron,
of Michigan, to be Inspector General, Department of the Interior, vice Wilma A. Lewis, resigned.
Gordon Davidson,
of California, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2004, vice Kenneth Malerman Jarin, term expired.
Vivian Lowery Derryck,
an Assistant Administrator of the Agency for International Development, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2003, vice John F. Hicks, Sr., term expired.
Rose Eilene Gottemoeller,
of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Non-Proliferation and National Security), vice Archer L. Durham, resigned.
David Michaels,
of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environment, Safety, and Health), vice Tara Jeanne O'Toole, resigned.
Susan E. Rice,
an Assistant Secretary of State, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the African Development Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2003, vice George Edward Moose, term expired.
Cleo Parker Robinson,
of Colorado, to be a member of the National Council on the Arts for a term expiring September 3, 2004, vice Ira Ronald Feldman, term expired. Michael J. Sullivan,
of Wyoming, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Ireland.
Aleta A. Trauger,
of Tennessee, to be U.S. District Judge for the Middle District of Tennessee, vice John T. Nixon, retired. Submitted September 23
Denise E. O'Donnell,
of New York, to be U.S. Attorney for the Western District of New York for the term of 4 years, vice Patrick H. NeMoyer, resigned. Submitted September 24
C. Donald Johnson, Jr.,
of Georgia, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Chief Textile Negotiator.
William Clifford Smith,
of Lousiana, to be a member of the Mississippi River Commission for a term expiring October 21, 2005, vice Frank H. Walk, term expired. Submitted September 25
George M. Langford,
of New Hampshire, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Charles Edward Hess, term expired.
Joseph A. Miller, Jr.,
of Delaware, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice John Hopcroft, term expired.
Maxine L. Savitz,
of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Frank H.T. Rhodes, term expired.
Luis Sequeria,
of Wisconsin, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Ian M. Ross, term expired.
Chang-Lin Tien,
of California, to be a member of the National Science Board, National Science Foundation, for a term expiring May 10, 2004, vice Richard Neil Zare, term expired.
  