
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including the Export Enhancement Act of 1992 (Public Law 102–429, 106 Stat. 2186), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, it is hereby ordered as follows:
Section 1. Establishment. There is established the "Trade Promotion Coordinating Committee" ("TPCC"). The Committee shall comprise representatives of each of the following:

(a)
Department of Commerce
(b)
Department of State;
(c)
Department of the Treasury;
(d)
Department of Agriculture;
(e)
Department of Energy;
(f)
Department of Transportation;
(g)
Department of Defense;
(h)
Department of Labor;
(i)
Department of the Interior;
(j)
Agency for International Development;
(k)
Trade and Development Agency;
(l)
Environmental Protection Agency;
(m)
United States Information Agency;
(n)
Small Business Administration;
(o)
Overseas Private Investment Corporation;
(p)
Export-Import Bank of the United States;
(q)
Office of the United States Trade Representative;
(r)
Council of Economic Advisers;
(s)
Office of Management and Budget;
(t)
National Economic Council;
(u)
National Security Council; and

(v) at the discretion of the President, such other departments or agencies as may be necessary.
Members of the TPCC shall be appointed by the heads of their respective departments or agencies. Such members, as well as their designated alternatives, shall be individuals who exercise significant decision-making authority in their respective departments or agencies.
Sec. 2. Chairperson. The Secretary of Commerce shall be the chairperson of the TPCC.
Sec. 3. Purpose. The purpose of the TPCC shall be to provide a unifying framework to coordinate the export promotion and export financing activities
of the United States Government and to develop a governmentwide strategic plan for carrying out such programs.
Sec. 4. Duties. The TPCC shall:

(a)
coordinate the development of the trade promotion policies and programs of the United States Government;
(b)
provide a central source of information for the business community on Federal export promotion and export financing programs;


(c)
coordinate official trade promotion efforts to ensure better delivery of services to U.S. businesses, including:


(1)
information and counseling on U.S. export promotion and export financing programs and opportunities in foreign markets;
(2)
representation of U.S. business interests abroad; and
(3)
assistance with foreign business contacts and projects;




(d)
prevent unnecessary duplication in Federal export promotion and export financing activities;
(e)
assess the appropriate levels and allocation of resources among agencies in support of export promotion and export financing and provide recommendations, through the Director of the Office of Management and Budget to the President, based on its assessment; and


(f)
carry out such other duties as are deemed to be appropriate, consistent with the purpose of the TPCC.
Sec. 5. Strategic Plan. To carry out section 4 of this order, the TPCC shall develop and implement a governmentwide strategic plan for Federal trade promotion efforts. Such plan shall:


(a)
establish a set of priorities for Federal activities in support of U.S. exports and explain the rationale for the priorities;
(b)
review current Federal programs designed to promote the sale of U.S. exports in light of the priorities established under paragraph (a) of this section and develop a plan to bring such activities into line with those priorities and to improve coordination of such activities;
(c)
identify areas of overlap and duplication among Federal export promotion activities and propose means of eliminating them;
(d)
propose, through the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, to the President an annual unified Federal trade promotion budget that supports the plan for priority activities and improved coordination established under paragraph (b) of this section and eliminates funding for the areas of overlap and duplication identified under paragraph (c) of this section; and
(e)
review efforts by the States to promote U.S. exports and propose means of developing cooperation between State and Federal efforts, including co-location, cost-sharing between Federal and State export promotion programs, and sharing of market research data.

Sec. 6. Report. The chairperson of the TPCC, with the approval of the President, shall prepare and submit to the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, not later than September 30, 1993, and annually thereafter, a report describing the strategic plan developed by the
TPCC pursuant to section 5 of this order, the implementation of such a plan, and any revisions to the plan.
William J. Clinton
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 30, 1993.
  