
    
  "Struggling To Gain Momentum" ... "Well Below Expectations" ... "Awful" ... "Dangerously Slow" ... "Very Rough Numbers"

Reuters: "Economic Growth Was Much Weaker Than Previously Estimated In The Second Quarter ...  Setting The Platform For An Even More Sluggish Performance In The Current Quarter..." "Economic growth was much weaker than previously estimated in the second quarter as a drought cut into inventories, setting the platform for an even more sluggish performance in the current quarter against the backdrop of slowing factory activity." (Reuters, 9/27/12)
Dow Jones: "Economic Output In The U.S. Was Even Weaker Than Previously Thought..." "Economic output in the U.S. was even weaker than previously thought, as slower consumer spending and the drought in the Midwest held back growth." (Dow Jones, 9/27/12)
AFP: "Far Weaker Than Previously Believed ...Well Below Expectations..." "The US economy grew 1.3 percent in the second quarter of the year, far weaker than previously believed, Commerce Department data released Thursday showed. The Commerce Department's third estimate of gross domestic product growth for the April-June period was well below expectations that the annual growth rate would hold unchanged at the prior estimate of 1.7 percent." (Agence France Presse, 9/27/12)
The Wall Street Journal: "Growth Is Extraordinary Weak For This Stage Of The Economic Recovery." "Whether the economy is growing at a 1.7% rate or a 1.3% clip is essentially negligible to the average American. Either way, growth is extraordinary weak for this stage of the economic recovery." (Steven Russolillo, "GDP Revision, Durable Goods: Ouch!," The Wall Street Journal, 9/27/12)
The Associated Press: "An Even More Sluggish Pace In The April-June Quarter Than Previously Believed..." "The United States economy grew at an even more sluggish pace in the April-June quarter than previously believed, the Commerce Department said Thursday, as farm production in the Midwest was reduced by a severe drought." (The Associated Press, 9/27/12)
Bloomberg: "Shows The World's Largest Economy Is Struggling To Gain Momentum..." "The economy in the U.S. grew less than previously forecast in the second quarter, reflecting slower gains in consumer spending and farm inventories. ... After growing at a 4 percent pace in the last three months of 2011, the deceleration over the past two quarters shows the world's largest economy is struggling to gain momentum as consumer and companies curb spending." (Bloomberg, 9/27/12)
Fox Business' Dagen McDowell: "That's Awful."(Fox Business' "Imus In The Morning," 9/27/12)
American Enterprise Institute's Jimmy Pethokoukis: "U.S. Economic Growth Is Dangerously Slow. ... Slow Enough To Signal About A 50% Chance Of A Recession Within A Year."  "U.S. economic growth is dangerously slow. ... Not only does this mean the economy is growing more slowly than last year's 1.8%, it is also slow enough to signal about a 50% chance of a recession within a year." (American Enterprise Institute, 9/27/12)
Fox News' Martha MacCallum:"That GDP Number Is A Downward Revision And It Is A Very Rough Picture In Terms Of Growth."(Fox News' "America's Newsroom," 9/27/12)
Fox Business' Stuart Varney:"It Feels Like We're Going Into Recession And To A Majority Of People, It Feels Like We Are In A Recession Already. Very Rough Numbers Today."(Fox News' "America's Newsroom," 9/27/12)
  