
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Just after the turn of the century, George Washington Carver, teacher, scientist, and intellectual leader at Tuskegee Institute, wrote, "Education is the key to unlock the golden door of freedom." His words ring true for all Americans, but especially so for the students of our Nation's historically black colleges and universities. These institutions are a beacon of hope, a path to advancement, and a source of pride for African Americans and for everyone who values higher learning.
Founded on a commitment to equal opportunity and academic excellence, historically black colleges and universities have enabled countless members of our society to receive a quality education and to pursue their goals and careers. In every sector of our diverse and vibrant country—business, law, academia, medicine, science, the arts, and the military—graduates of these schools have made outstanding contributions to our Nation's progress.
These distinguished institutions have long provided a bridge to the American Dream for their alumni—many of whom are the first in their families to graduate from college. And while nearly all of America's 103 historically black colleges and universities are located in the South, our entire Nation has benefited from their legacy. Indeed, 27 percent of all baccalaureate degrees awarded to African Americans are granted by these schools, which represent only 3 percent of America's institutions of higher education.
It is their commitment to academic rigor and their dedication to empowering the minority community that have enabled historically black colleges and universities to build a proud tradition of excellence in this country. As centers of independent thought, black colleges hold out a promise to the young leaders of tomorrow—a promise that our Nation will continue to grow in wisdom, that the future will hold increased opportunity, and that education will open new doors to hope and prosperity.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 24 through September 30, 1995, as National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week. I call upon the people of the United States, including government officials, educators, and administrators, to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities honoring America's black colleges and their graduates, and I encourage all Americans to rededicate themselves to the principles of justice and equality set forth in our Constitution.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twentieth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  