
    Wilburn is Second Member of Iowa's Legislative Black Caucus to Endorse Harris
Ahead of Senator Kamala Harris' return to Iowa this afternoon, State Rep. Ross Wilburn announced his endorsement of Harris. Wilburn represents the 46th District, which includes Ames, and is one of the five members of the Iowa Legislative Black Caucus. State Rep. Phyllis Thede, another member of the caucus, endorsed Harris in July at a roundtable discussion about issues facing women of color.
"I am so inspired to campaign in Kamala's Corner. She reminds us that this election can't just be about getting rid of Trump – it is about writing the next chapter," said Wilburn. "I am confident that she will work tirelessly to restore and protect our civil rights, women's rights, LGBTQ rights, voting rights, disability rights, rights of Dreamers, enact comprehensive criminal justice reform and restore environmental protections. I know that she has the executive, legislative, and life experience to get it done."
"Kamala's tenacity has been on full display during Senate hearings when she fights to hold the Trump administration accountable by asking the tough questions on behalf of the American people," he added. "She has a laser like focus on the direction we want our country to go. She is the candidate who said from the beginning and throughout her career that she is 'For the People.'"
Prior to his election to the House, Wilburn served as the first African American elected mayor of Iowa City and on the Iowa City City Council for 12 years. Wilburn is the latest in a series of major endorsements for Harris, including Sioux City City Councilman and disabilities advocate Alex Watters, Iowa powerhouses Sue and Bob Dvorsky, LULAC Council 10 President Jazmin Newton-Butt, and Des Moines School Board Member and teacher librarian Kyrstin Delagardelle.
Today, the campaign announced that Harris will campaign in Iowa each week in October and add over 60 new organizers in the state and open 10 additional offices. Harris will make campaign stops in Coralville, Cedar Rapids, Waterloo, Cedar Falls, and Des Moines this Thursday through Saturday.
  