
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
Subject: President's Management Improvement Council
One of the highest priorities of my Administration has been, and remains, improving the management and performance of the Federal government. Together we have matte some significant progress toward that end. Civil Service Reform, regulatory reform, cash management improvements, paperwork reduction, Federal grant reform, and our efforts to prevent fraud and waste are producing substantial improvements in the operations of the Federal government.
I recognize that you are already doing many things to improve management in your departments or agencies. Yet as I meet and talk with individual citizens and groups, I am constantly reminded that there continues to be widespread distrust of government, and widespread dissatisfaction with how well the Federal government does its job. I believe that there are further management improvements which need to be undertaken, and I seek your commitment to take a fresh look at management problems in your agency.
I would urge you to give special attention to the problems of delivery of service to the public. There continue to be many instances throughout government of slow response to client needs, backlogs of work, overly complicated procedures, and insensitivity or indifference in dealing with the public. In many cases improvements can be made in practical, down-to-earth ways by line managers and supervisors, if they have your strong backing to do so.
As part of this renewed commitment to Federal management, I have, by Executive Order, established the President's Management Improvement Council. This Council, co-chaired by the Directors of the Office of Management and Budget and the Office of Personnel Management, consists of representatives from Federal agencies and State and local government, executives from the private sector and labor organizations. and academic leaders. Its purpose is to work with you in a renewed effort to bring all of our collective expertise, experience, and knowledge to bear to generate the highest level of performance in the Federal government.
I am convinced that there is much that we can learn—and must learn—from sources outside the Federal government to improve the efficiency of our operations and our delivery of public services. The Council brings us an added dimension to help identify and solve the difficult and persistent problems of managing complex government institutions. I have asked the Council to focus its attention especially on the more practical problems affecting the delivery of services to the public. In turn, I am asking you to view the Council as a resource to advise and assist you in addressing your critical management problems.
The Council will keep me informed of its activities and will bring significant problem areas to my attention. I urge you to seize the opportunity which the Council represents and renew your commitment to an efficient and responsive Federal government.
JIMMY CARTER
  