
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Georgia State Senator Dan Moody has endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. State Senator Moody will help organize Governor Romney's statewide grassroots efforts and will help communicate his message of conservative change in Washington.
"I am pleased to have the endorsement of State Senator Moody," Governor Romney said. "His strong work ethic and leadership experience will be an excellent addition to our Georgia campaign organization. I look forward to working with Senator Moody and our entire Georgia legislative leadership team as our campaign moves forward."
Joining Romney for President State Senator Moody said, "Governor Romney's campaign is growing statewide as voters hear about his commitment to make America stronger through a stronger military, a stronger economy and stronger families. Governor Romney is the only candidate who can strengthen our country by bringing conservative change to Washington. I will proudly stand with his campaign."
State Senator Moody joins U.S. Congressmen Tom Price and Phil Gingrey, and Speaker Pro Tempore Mark Burkhalter in their support of Governor Romney. Cobb County Commission Chairman Sam Olens, along with State Reps. David Casas, Brooks Coleman, Jan Jones, Jeff Lewis, Edward Lindsey, Chuck Martin, Fran Millar, and Bob Smith have also endorsed Governor Romney's campaign.
Background On State Senator Dan Moody:
Georgia State Senator Dan Moody Serves As The Chairman Of The Senate Majority Caucus And As The Chairman Of The Senate Appropriations' Education Subcommittee. First elected in 2002, Moody was named "Legislator of the Year" by Georgia Governor Sonny Perdue in 2005. To mark his growing role as a leader of education in Georgia, Perdue appointed Moody to the Southern Regional Education Board Legislative Advisory Council, a position he has held since 2004. Moody also serves as the Secretary of the Insurance & Labor Committee and is a member of the Reapportionment & Redistricting Committee and the Senate Rules Committee. An Electrical Engineer by trade and a retired Captain in the U.S. Army Reserves, Moody is the former owner of a Forsyth County company that provides instrumentation products and services throughout the world to the industrial control market. Dan and his wife, Stephanie, have been married 37 years and have three children and five grandchildren.
  