
    PRESIDENT DUDA: [No translation provided.]
VICE PRESIDENT PENCE: Well, thank you, President Duda. Thank you for your hospitality, and thank you for welcoming us to the Presidential Palace here in Warsaw. And I extend to you the greetings and thanks of your friend, President Donald Trump, who appreciates your leadership. We offer his and my congratulations on a deeply meaningful commemoration of the outbreak of World War II.
But I know I speak for the President when I say how grateful we are for the expressions of concern and for understanding and the support and the prayers that we have received as Hurricane Dorian makes its way west.
The United States is prepared. The President is where he needs to be, as you've said. From the moment I arrived, and in the midst of this historic commemoration here in Poland, I know the President is especially grateful for your consideration and your concern.
The relationship between the United States and Poland has never been stronger. And that is a testament to your leadership, President Duda, and the leadership of President Donald Trump.
Our peoples have been bound together for generations. And today, more than 10 million Polish Americans I know take great pride in the extraordinary progress over the decades that Poland has made from that day, 80 years ago, that we all reflected on yesterday. Through decades of communist tyranny, Poland led the way for Eastern Europe, back to freedom. And we extend to you the admiration of all of the American people. But I know I also extend and well express the pride of Polish Americans for Poland's example and resilience and determination.
We've strengthened our security partnership under your leadership and the leadership of President Donald Trump. Sites for our joint bases have been finalized. And I'm pleased to see that Poland is nearing eligibility for the Visa Waiver Program. And I'm happy to report to you today that the United States intends to nominate Poland as soon as it meets its requirements.
We're also working on a defense cooperation agreement between our two countries, all of which reflects the strong relationship that has been forged between our two nations under your leadership, President Duda, and the leadership of President Donald Trump.
I also look forward to our discussions about other economic relationship. I'm pleased to have our Secretary of Energy, Rick Perry, with us today, who has been to Poland many times. We look forward to working together on joint energy projects more than ever. And we're anxious to see ways that America and Poland can continue to facilitate Poland's energy independence and in ways that will strengthen your economy and strength ours.
But let me also say, Mr. President, we are grateful. I know that President Trump is grateful that you rejected proposals for a digital service tax. We commend your leadership in this regard.
But we see many opportunities for creative cooperation on security, as well as economic growth. And we look forward to the discussions to explore all those.
But, President Duda, once again, thank you. Thank you for your gracious understanding of President Trump's need to be home at this challenging time for the American people, as Hurricane Dorian approaches. But thank you also for the extraordinary leadership you've provided in this country and for the hospitality you've extended to me and my wife. We're truly grateful.
  