
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Lauren M. Maddox, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Education (Communications and Outreach). Ms. Maddox currently works as a Principal at PodestaMattoon. Prior to this, she served as the Communications Director in the House Republican Conference. Earlier in her career, she worked as the Senior Vice President of Communications for the Federation of American Hospitals. Ms. Maddox received her bachelor's degree from Creighton University and her master's degree from Northwestern University.
The President intends to nominate Jovita Carranza, of Illinois, to be Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration. Ms. Carranza most recently worked as Vice President of Air Operations for United Parcel Service. Prior to this, she worked as President of Latin American Operations and Caribbean for United Parcel Service. Earlier in her career, she worked as Wisconsin State District Manager of Operations for United Parcel Service. Ms. Carranza received her bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Miami.
The President intends to nominate Donald Y. Yamamoto, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. Ambassador Yamamoto, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of African Affairs at the Department of State. Prior to this, he served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Djibouti. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director of the Office of East African Affairs. Ambassador Yamamoto received his bachelor's and master's degrees from Columbia University.
The President intends to nominate Dean A. Pinkert, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of the United States International Trade Commission for a nine year term beginning December 17, 2006. Mr. Pinkert currently serves as a Senior Attorney at the Department of Commerce. Prior to this, he served as the Trade and Judiciary Counsel for Senator Robert Byrd. Earlier in his career, he worked as a Senior Associate at King & Spalding. Mr. Pinkert received his bachelor's degree from Oberlin College. He later received his JD from the University of Texas and his LLM from the London School of Economics.
The President intends to nominate Irving A. Williamson, of New York, to be Commissioner of the United States International Trade Commission for the remainder of a nine year term expiring June 16, 2014. Mr. Williamson is currently President at Williamson International Trade Strategies. Prior to this, he served as Deputy General Counsel in the Office of the United States Trade Representative. Earlier in his career, he worked as Vice President for Trade, Investment and Economic Development at the African-American Institute. Mr. Williamson received his bachelor's degree from Brown University and his master's degree from The Johns Hopkins University. He later received his JD from George Washington University.
The President intends to designate Leslie Silverman, of Virginia, to be Vice-Chairman of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
  