
    Pool Reports by Jonathan D. Salant, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette 



Sent:
Reports:




September 11, 202312:51

Second Gentleman pool report 1
Greetings from Johnstown Airport, where the Second Gentleman just landed and got into the motorcade. Below is the schedule.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASESeptember 10, 2023
DAILY GUIDANCE FOR SECOND GENTLEMAN DOUGLAS EMHOFFFOR MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 11, 2023
At 1:00 PM ET, the Second Gentleman will arrive at John Murtha Johnstown-Cambria County Airport in Cambria County, PA. This arrival will be pooled press.
At 2:00 PM ET, the Second Gentleman will participate in the Flight 93 National Memorial Observance Wreath Laying Ceremony in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, to mark the 22nd anniversary of the terror attacks on September 11, 2001. This ceremony will be pooled press.
At 4:00 PM ET, the Second Gentleman will depart John Murtha Johnstown-Cambria County Airport en route Washington, DC.This departure will be pooled press.



September 11, 202312:53

Second Gentleman pool report 2
Background below
On background from a White House official:Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will represent the Biden-Harris Administration at this year's Flight 93 National Memorial Observance Wreath Laying Ceremony in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, to mark the 22nd anniversary of the terror attacks on September 11, 2001. This is the Second Gentleman's second visit to Shanksville. He attended the ceremony in Shanksville in 2021 with Vice President Harris to mark the 20th Anniversary of the September 11th attacks.
Below are key events happening to mark the anniversary:

President Biden will meet with and deliver remarks before more than 1,000 servicemembers, first responders and their families at a military base in Anchorage, Alaska.
Vice President Harris will mark the anniversary at the September 11th Anniversary Commemoration Ceremony hosted by the National September 11 Memorial and Museum in New York, New York.
First Lady Jill Biden will lay a wreath at the National 9/11 Pentagon Memorial to honor the lives lost on September 11th in Arlington, Virginia.
Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will mark the anniversary at the Flight 93 National Memorial Observance Wreath Laying Ceremony in Shanksville, Pennsylvania.
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin will host an Observance Ceremony at the National 9/11 Pentagon Memorial in Arlington, Virginia.
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas and Ambassador to the UN Linda Thomas-Greenfield will also attend the September 11th Anniversary Commemoration Ceremony hosted by the National September 11 Memorial and Museum in New York, New York.
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough will participate in a 9/11 National Day of Service event at VA's Baltimore National Cemetery in Baltimore, Maryland.

Here is additional background on today's activities in Shanksville:
Press Release: Memorial Announces 'Teach to Remember'; Virtual Day of Learning for September 11 - Flight 93 National Memorial (U.S. National Park Service) (nps.gov)Press Release: Flight 93 National Memorial to bring 9/11 Service to classrooms across America - Flight 93 National Memorial (U.S. National Park Service) (nps.gov)
Virtual National Day of Learning: Friends of Flight 93 are hosting Zoom Events platform for educators to participate. Registration at flight93friends.org



September 11, 202313:32

Second Gentleman pool report 3
We've arrived at the memorial. The SG is meeting with a family member privately before placing a wreath against the wall with the victims' names



September 11, 202313:43

Second Gentleman pool report 4
Some 100 people were at the site. There also were park rangers and Naval officers. They stood near where the SG was going to place the wreath
The SG walked over to the wall with a family member , her daughter, and National Park Service ranger Stephen Clark. He then went over to chat with the Naval officers.



September 11, 202314:09
Second Gentleman pool report 5
The SG, accompanied by Pa. Gov. Josh Shapiro and his wife Lori and a family member stood with the wreath in front of the wall.
Behind them, Clark and four naval officers stood at attention.
They stood in silence as the ranger and the officers saluted. The SG and his party then silently left.
Bouquets and single flowers were placed against the wall, reminiscent of the wall at the Vietnam memorial in DC.
The naval officers are from the USS Simersey and come to the site every year. Shanksville is in Somerset County, Pa.
More people keep coming. Safe to say more than 125 people.



September 11, 202314:23
Second Gentleman pool report 6
The SG, Gov. Shapiro and others went to the boulder site, not open to the public, where Flight 93 actually crashed. There was a wreath there too.
They were too far away to see much or hear anything.



September 11, 202314:27
Second Gentleman pool report 7
We are making a stop at the Shanksville Volunteer Fire Department, which responded to the plane crash on 9/11. The SG will meet with first responders. He is to be accompanied by Pa. Gov. Shapiro.



September 11, 202315:35

Second Gentleman pool report 8
The SG, Gov. Shapiro and Pa. first lady Lori Shapiro arrived at the Shanksville VFD firehouse. They met some of those who lost relatives aboard Flight 93, who come to the firehouse every year on this date after visiting the memorial. The firefighters set up long tables and folding chairs for the relatives, plus food funded by the Gary Sinise Foundation. There were trays of chicken, potatoes, salad, green beans and rolls.
SG brought with him some cookies from Dog Tag bakery in D.C.,a nonprofit that helps veterans. Shapiro brought a case of Iron City light beer.The SG, governor and Pa. first lady made their way with Fire Chief Jim Bentover to the fire department's 9/11 memorial, a giant cross surrounded by American flags. The cross said, "9/11/01. Never forget."
The SG chattered with several of the firefighters.
To Brianne Alianiello, an EMS captain and firefighter, he talked about the relatives who come yearly. "You can feel this is a second home for them. They know they have a home base here."
He also mentioned that his brother was a retired firefighter. "I know what you go through. I know what families go through."



September 11, 202315:49

Second Gentleman pool report 9
Below is more background.
From a White House official:
The Second Gentleman joined family members at the impact site. The memorial plaza consists of Hemlock Grove. At the edge of the field is what remains of a hemlock grove damaged by the crash of Flight 93. At the base of the grove is a boulder which marks the general location of the impact site.
Mr. Emhoff then went back to the wall of names where he greeted with park rangers to thank them for their service.



September 11, 202316:27

Second Gentleman pool report 10
The SG lifted off without problems and my work here is done. It was a pleasure serving as your pooler today.



September 11, 202317:36

Second Gentleman pool report 11 -- name of family member with SG
The family member at the memorial was Debby Borza, mother of Flight 93 passenger Deora Bodley.




  