
    Today marks the 8th annual dinner of the Congressional Black Caucus. From its inception, the caucus has played an instrumental role in the development and passage of legislation benefiting all Americans.
Since taking office, I have found the caucus, under the leadership of Congressman Parren Mitchell, to be an extraordinarily talented group of legislators, always having the interests of the Nation and their constituents as a primary concern. For that reason, I have met regularly with the caucus throughout my Presidency, and I look forward to the guidance and counsel I will get from our future meetings.
A member of the caucus, Congressman Gus Hawkins, drafted, with the late Senator Hubert Humphrey, a landmark full employment bill, which I endorsed in my campaign and have strongly supported since the beginning of my administration.
Among the caucus' most outstanding achievements has been the effort to make all Americans aware of the need for a legislated commitment to a full employment policy.
Over the next 2 weeks, the debate over this legislation will intensify. Throughout that debate, we should never lose sight of the fact that the Humphrey-Hawkins bill is designed to help all Americans, not just blacks or other minorities. A full employment commitment of the Federal Government will benefit men and women of every color and economic status.
I continue to regard the passage of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill as one of the highest legislative priorities of my administration. Working with the Congressional Black Caucus and the Full Employment Council, led by Coretta Scott King, my administration has been working to ensure passage this year of this long overdue and much needed legislation.
We have been successful so far in the House of Representatives, which overwhelmingly passed the Humphrey-Hawkins bill this year. The bill is now before the Senate, and through the leadership of Senator Byrd, the bill has now been placed on the Senate calendar. We are now working with the Senate leadership to secure a time agreement on this bill so that we can be certain the 95th Congress will not adjourn without passage of the Humphrey-Hawkins bill. If the Members of the Senate allow this bill to come to a vote, I have no doubt that we will succeed.
  