
    Hillary's "The Change We Need" Tour Across New Hampshire and Iowa Kicks Off Fall Campaign
We wanted to share you with highlights from Hillary's trip across New Hampshire and Iowa over the Labor Day Weekend with President Clinton.
Over the two-day swing, Hillary made clear that she has the strength and experience to deliver the change America needs, and outlined her four big goals: Restoring our leadership in the world; rebuilding our middle class economy for the new global era; reclaiming the future for our children; and bringing back the values of integrity, fairness and tolerance in America.
Cedar Rapids Gazette: Clinton Pledges ChangeDemocrat Hillary Clinton promised Monday to change the nation's direction as president by rebuilding the middle class while turning out "the cronies and ending the corruption" that have gripped Washington during the Bush-Cheney years... "I know that real change takes hard work, it takes preparation and it takes a lot of perspiration," she said. "We've got to start focusing on results, not rhetoric; on people, not process; because change is just a word if you don't have the strength and experience to make it happen. To read the full story [Click here].
Radio Iowa: Clintons Focus On Message Of Change"Are you ready for change in America?" Clinton asked the crowd. "Are you ready for universal health care for every single man, woman and child?...Are you ready for a vice president who respects the constitution of the United States of America? Are you ready to end the war in Iraq and bring our young men and women home?"The crowd, about twice as large as the group that stood to listen to Edwards speak, cheered after each of those questions. Clinton then concluded with her campaign theme. "If you're ready for change, I am ready to lead because I have big goals for America," she said. To read the full story [Click here].
Des Moines Register: Clinton: Experience Trumps DoubtsSioux City Democrat Shirley McArdle was leaning toward backing Obama in the caucuses, but was impressed by Clinton, whom she had never seen in person."She was much better than I expected," said McArdle, who is undecided. "I like what I heard today. She came across as passionate." To read the full story [Click here].
NH Union Leader: Clintons Double Team NHEven four months from the first primary, likely voters in the Concord crowd said they considered Clinton to have the race about locked up."Name one person who's going to stop her," said Jeffrey Whooten, a retiree from Goffstown. He said Clinton has the maturity, credibility and leadership to wrest the White House from continued Republican control. To read the full story [Click here].
Concord Monitor: Clintons Team Up On TrailIn a Democratic primary where numerous candidates are describing themselves as the agents of change, Hillary Clinton simultaneously laid her own claim to the "change" mantle and emphasized the importance of political experience. Speaking before a thousands-strong crowd on the State House lawn yesterday morning, Clinton argued that without insight into the workings of Washington, change will prove elusive."Change is just a word without the strength and experience to make it happen," she said, speaking from a podium decorated with "Change plus Experience" signs. "And I know some people think you have to choose between change and experience. Well, with me, you don't have to choose." To read the full story [Click here].
Foster's Daily Democrat: Clintons By The SeaMany voters interviewed at the end of Hillary Clinton's half-hour remarks said they came to the event already in her corner. But Barbara Collier, a city resident and magazine copy editor, said she arrived not "definitively" supportive, but left thinking "she's pretty amazing. She speaks so well, she's so clear ... she's hitting all the right buttons," she said.Max Miller of Nashua said he left undecided but "90 percent" ready to commit to Clinton. "She talks about the things that are important to me," especially health care and ending the Iraq war, he said. To read the full story [Click here].
[Watch Video] of Hillary campaigning in New Hampshire here.
  