
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      F. Scott Kieff – Member, United States International Trade Commission
•      Joshua D. Wright – Commissioner, Federal Trade Commission
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
F. Scott Kieff, Nominee for Member, United States International Trade Commission 
F. Scott Kieff is a professor at The George Washington University Law School and a Ray and Louis Knowles Senior Fellow at Stanford University's Hoover Institution, where he directs the Project on Commercializing Innovation and serves on the Property Rights Task Force. From 2007 to 2010, Mr. Kieff was a member of the Patent Public Advisory Committee of the United States Patent and Trademark Office. From 2005 to 2007, he was a mediator in the appellate mediation program of the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. In addition, Mr. Kieff practiced law from 1998 to 2000 at Jenner & Block in Chicago and from 1994 to 1996 at Pennie & Edmonds in New York. From 1996 to 1998, he served as a law clerk to Judge Giles S. Rich of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Mr. Kieff received a B.S. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a J.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Dr. Joshua D. Wright, Nominee for Commissioner, Federal Trade Commission 
Dr. Joshua D. Wright is a professor at George Mason University (GMU) School of Law and holds a courtesy appointment in GMU's Department of Economics. Dr. Wright previously served as the inaugural Scholar in Residence at the Federal Trade Commission's Bureau of Competition, from January 2007 to July 2008. Before joining GMU, Dr. Wright taught at the Pepperdine University School of Public Policy and clerked for Judge James V. Selna of the United States District Court for the Central District of California. He received a B.A. in Economics at the University of California, San Diego and a J.D. and a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), where he was Managing Editor of the UCLA Law Review.
  