
    New York, NY -- New York City's Correction Officers' Benevolent Association (COBA) endorsed Barack Obama today at a press conference with the Senator in New York City. COBA, which represents 9,000 unionized members in New York City, is the largest municipal jail union in the country, and the second largest law enforcement union in New York City.
"I am looking forward to working with President Seabrook and the thousands of correction officers across the state as we continue to build this campaign from the bottom up," said Barack Obama. "It's an honor to have the endorsement of these men and women who put themselves at risk everyday to serve on the front lines of our nation's criminal justice system. And we're all fortunate to have them fighting to make sure correction officers and their widows and children are being treated with the dignity and respect they deserve."
"We need a president whose leadership empowers all Americans to come together and fight for a better tomorrow. We need a president who understands the contributions of union members, and the critical role we play in advancing our cities, states, and country," COBA President Norman Seabrook stated. "Barack Obama is the one candidate who will put an end to the divisiveness in this country so that we can finally achieve greater economic prosperity for the working-class and health care coverage for all Americans."
The New York City Correction Officers' Benevolent Association (COBA) is dedicated to improving the salary and benefits of its members, while ensuring the safest working conditions possible. COBA has successfully negotiated four contracts with the Bloomberg administration.
Barack Obama will join supporters from across the New York City metropolitan area for a rally in Washington Square Park on Thursday, September 27. Gates to the park will open at 5:00pm. The event is an opportunity for Obama to thank his supporters for their commitment and hard work over the last few months and rally support for the final push to the nomination contests including the New York primary on February 5th.
  