
    Chapel Hill, North Carolina – In response to Senator Clinton's comment that the distinction between lobbyists and regular Americans is "artificial," John Edwards for President deputy campaign manger Jonathan Prince released the following statement:
"During the Slate/Yahoo/Huffington Post debate, which aired online today, Senator Clinton said the difference between lobbyists and regular Americans is an 'artificial distinction.' She is wrong. These lobbyists are legally required to register with the government to influence legislation. And, more than most, Senator Clinton should know that Washington is awash with campaign money from these lobbyists. It is wrong and it has to stop.
"Sometimes good people have been in Washington so long that they can't see what every American sees – the system in Washington has become corroded and corrupted and is failing the American people. By defending a broken system and lobbyists, Senator Clinton is defending the status quo and, knowingly or not, protecting those that have rigged the game.
"John Edwards believes it's time to end the game and be honest with the American people. It's time for us to have the strength to say no to Washington lobbyists' money so we can deliver the real change America deserves. That's why, once again, John Edwards renews his challenge to Senator Clinton to join with him in demanding the Democratic Party lead the way to real reform by refusing, as a party, to take campaign contributions from Washington lobbyists.
"In fact, for further explanation of the difference between lobbyists and regular Americans, see the DC Circuit decision on the Rumely Case* that said the following about lobbying: '...It is said that lobbying itself is an evil and a danger. We agree that lobbying by personal contact may be an evil and a potential danger to the best in legislative process. It is said that indirect lobbying by the pressure of public opinion on the Congress is an evil and danger. That is not an evil; that is a good, the healthy essence of the democratic process...'"
* Rumely v. United States, 197 F.2d 166 (D.C. Cir. 1952)
  