
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Benjamin A. Gilman, of New York, to be United States Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President intends to nominate Ann M. Corkery, of Virginia, to be United States Alternate Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President intends to nominate Walid Maalouf, of Virginia, to be United States Alternate Representative to the General Assembly of the United Nations.
The President intends to nominate William Cabaniss, of Alabama, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Czech Republic. Mr. Cabaniss currently serves as President and Chief Executive Officer of Precision Grinding, Inc. Prior to this position he served in the Alabama House of Representatives and in the Alabama State Senate. Mr. Cabaniss earned his bachelor's degree from Vanderbilt University.
The President intends to nominate Roderick R. Paige, of Texas, to be a United States Representative to the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Secretary Paige currently serves as the U.S. Secretary of Education.
The President intends to nominate Louise V. Oliver, of the District of Columbia, to be a United States Representative to the General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, and nominate her for the Rank of Ambassador during tenure as Permanent United States Representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Ms. Oliver currently serves as President of Oliver Management Consultants and she was previously appointed by the President to be Commissioner of the National Council on Children. She earned her bachelor's degree from Smith College.
The President intends to nominate Bernice Phillips, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring July 13, 2005. Ms. Phillips currently serves as a Transitional Linkage Specialist for the Buffalo Prenatal-Perinatal Network, where she previously served as a Community Health Worker. Early in her career she served as a Secretary for Preventive/Intensive Foster Care Services. Ms. Phillips earned her associate's degree from Brie Community College.
The President intends to nominate Kirk Van Tine, of Virginia, to be Deputy Secretary of Transportation. Mr. Van Tine most recently served as General Counsel of the Department of Transportation. He previously served as a Partner with Baker Botts, LLP. Mr. Van Tine earned his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and his J.D. from the University of Virginia.
  