
    Castro fired up New Hampshire Democrats at convention
SAN ANTONIO, TX (September 13, 2019) – Following his well-received appearance at the New Hampshire State Democratic Convention on Saturday, presidential candidate, former Obama Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) and Mayor of San Antonio, Texas, Julián Castro announced the hire of two senior staffers on his New Hampshire team this week.
Castro hired Eliot Beckham as organizing director and Reshard el-Shair as the deputy organizing director.
"Secretary Castro showed on Saturday and again on Thursday why this campaign is gaining more traction and momentum in New Hampshire and throughout the country," said Castro campaign New Hampshire state director and State Representative Manny Espitia. "He received an enthusiastic response in the halls and on stage in Manchester on Saturday, and we continue to grow our team to reach people in every corner of New Hampshire."
Secretary Castro energized thousands of Democrats Saturday at the Southern New Hampshire University Arena in Manchester.
"The motto of this great state is 'Live Free or Die.' I want you to help us live free from Donald Trump starting on Jan. 20, 2021," Secretrary Castro said to applause from thousands.
The Castro campaign's 4,000 "Adiós Trump" buttons were the most popular button at the convention.
Beckham previously organized for Stacey Abrams and Jon Ossoff in Georgia. In 2018, he devised strategies for first-time legislative candidates with several winning as Democrats gained 14 seats in Georgia's 180-member State House.
Most recently, el-Shair served as a regional organizing director in New Hampshire for the presidential campaign of U.S. Senator Kirsten Gillibrand of New York. He contributed to the successful effort in North Carolina to break the Republican supermajority in the state's legislature and worked on Ossoff's congressional campaign. He began his organizing career in Cleveland, Ohio, where he campaigned to strengthen environmental regulations, registered a record number of minority voters, and helped deliver Ohio for President Obama in 2012.
  