
    Democratic Activist and Director Cites Experience, Commitment to All Americans
Citing her experience and vision for the nation, Democratic activist and director Rob Reiner today endorsed Hillary Clinton for President of the United States. He issued the following statement:
Until now, my wife Michele and I have supported all of the Democratic candidates. After watching the candidates debate, stake out their positions on the issues and lay out their visions for our nation, it is clear that Hillary Clinton should be our next president.
Today, I am excited and proud to endorse Hillary Clinton and pledge to do everything I can to elect her.
Hillary has what it takes to get us out of Iraq, and ensure that we truly keep our nation's promise to "leave no child behind."
She has fought for healthcare, quality schools, and working families her entire life. As President, she will lead a government that serves all Americans.
Senator Clinton not only has a clear, inclusive and progressive vision for our future, she also has the know-how and experience to create positive and lasting change from day one of her administration.
Hillary and I have worked together for many years. She has been a staunch advocate for children and helped California pass Proposition 10, which has provided almost $6 billion for early childhood health and education. As First Lady, she helped create the Children's Health Insurance Program, which provides coverage to 6 million children; the Vaccines for Children program, which resulted in 90% of children receiving the vaccinations they need; and Early Head Start, which provides social services to infants and toddlers living in poverty. She has continued those efforts on the campaign trail by laying out a serious plan to provide high quality early childhood education to at risk young children, and a terrific plan to provide high quality health care to all Americans.
Based on her actions as a mother, First Lady, Senator and candidate, I know that children will be a top priority in Hillary Clinton's White House. She understands that investing in a child pays a lifetime of dividends for our entire nation.
Rob Reiner starred in the groundbreaking "All in the Family," and directed "When Harry Met Sally," "A Few Good Men," "The Princess Bride," "Stand By Me," "The American President," and just completed "The Bucket List," starring Jack Nicholson and Morgan Freeman, due out this Christmas.
  