
    Pool Reports by Courtney Rozen, Bloomberg Government 



Sent:
Reports:




September 14, 202310:11

In-Town Pool Report 1 - lid until 1 p.m.
Good morning from the White House.
The White House press office called a lid until 1 p.m. Pool call time was 10 a.m.
It is sunny and breezy outside.
The president is scheduled to give a speech at Prince George's Community College at about 2:45 p.m. He'll return to the White House this evening for a virtual meeting with rabbis to honor the Jewish High Holy Days.



September 14, 202311:23

In-Town Pool Report 1a - audio for rabbi
Logistics update. The pool will not be in the room with President Biden when he speaks with the rabbis tonight. There will not be an option for pictures.
6:15 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a call and delivers remarks with rabbis around the country to commemorate the Jewish High HolidaysVirtualIn-House Pool



September 14, 202313:10

In-Town Pool Report 2 - departure soon
The president is scheduled to leave shortly for his trip to Maryland.
A note about the last pool report. Not having the pool in the room with the president for the call with the rabbis was the original plan for today, the White House press office said. It is not a change.



September 14, 202313:31

In-Town Pool Report #3 - Gather
Pool is gathering at the Palm Room Doors for President Biden's departure to Maryland.



September 14, 202314:04

In-Town Pool Report #4 - leaving White House
The president's motorcade is rolling from the White House South Lawn as of 2 p.m. Destination is Prince George's Community College.
Pool did not see the president enter his car.



September 14, 202314:19

In-Town Pool Report #5 - travelers
See below from the White House press office.
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Largo, Maryland:
Senator Ben Cardin (MD)
Senator Chris Van Hollen (MD)
Rep. Steny Hoyer (MD-05)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Mike Pyle, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economic Affairs
Olivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior Advisor
John McCarthy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the President
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Vernon Baker III, Special Assistant to the President and Senate Legislative Affairs Liaison



September 14, 202314:39

In-Town Pool Report #6 - arrival
The president's motorcade arrived at Prince George's Community College at 2:24 p.m. Pool did not see the president leave his car.
Pool was led into the lobby of the school's Center for Performing Arts. There is a lectern set up with yellow signs saying "Bidenomics" next to it. Jazz music is playing.



September 14, 202314:50

In-Town Pool Report #7 - program begins
The program has begun. Rep. Steny Hoyer (D-Md.) is speaking to the crowd. The event is being streamed on the White House's website.
See below from White House press office.
Participating in a photo line with the President at Prince George's Community College:
Governor Wes Moore (MD)Senator Ben Cardin (MD)Senator Chris Van Hollen (MD)Rep. Steny Hoyer (MD-05)Rep. David Trone (MD-06)Secretary of State Susan Lee (MD)State Delegate Nick Charles (District 25)State Delegate Karen Toles (District 25)Chair Thomas Dernoga, Prince George's County Council
In attendance for the President's remarks on Bidenomics at Prince George's Community College:
Prince George's Community College students, elected officials, labor leaders and union members, and members of the Biden-Harris administration.
Speaking ProgramRep. Steny Hoyer (MD-05)Senator Chris Van Hollen (MD)Senator Ben Cardin (MD)Governor Wes Moore (MD)Sadé Davis, student at Prince George's Community CollegeThe President



September 14, 202316:20

In-Town Pool Report #8 - Speech wraps
President Biden took the stage at 3:17 p.m. He finished at 3:52 p.m and started shaking hands with people sitting to the right of the stage. Pool was ushered out of the speech area at 4:16 p.m. and did not see the president finish greeting people in the audience. Pool is walking to the vans for departure.



September 14, 202316:33

In-Town Pool Report #9 - rolling
Motorcade is rolling from Prince George's Community College as of 4:30 p.m. Destination is the White House.



September 14, 2023
[APP Note: Report #10 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


September 14, 202318:07

In-Town Pool Report #11 - Auto workers
From the White House press office:
President Biden spoke with Shawn Fain, President of UAW, and leaders of the major auto companies to discuss the status of ongoing negotiations.



September 14, 202319:02

In-Town Pool Report #12 - Rosh Hashanah call
Pool listened to President Biden speak to rabbis by phone to honor the Jewish High Holy Days. Attendees include faith leaders, rabbis, and members of the Jewish community, according to the White House press office.
He was introduced by Rabbi Erica Asch, president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis. He began speaking at 6:33 p.m. and finished at about 6:42 p.m. Recording can be found here:  https://drive.google.com/file/d/11pUvfPUsMhqKYVfuADCsoCauPjqjSX89/view?usp=sharing.
Highlights of speech:
Message of the High Holy Days is universal.
"It's never too late to repent, to change, to begin anew."
Important to show the world that we celebrate and protect Jewish AmericansTalked about federal funding for synagogue security, U.S. National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism, appointment of Ambassador Deborah Lipstadt, visiting Yad Vashem in Israel, hosting Israeli President Herzog, and nominating Jack Lew to be ambassador to Israel.




  