
    To the Congress of the United States:
Pursuant to section 204(b) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act, 50 U.S.C. section 1703(b), and section 301 of the National Emergencies Act, 50 U.S.C. section 1631, I hereby report that I have exercised my statutory authority to declare a national emergency with respect to the actions and policies of the National Union for the Total Independence of Angola ("UNITA") and to issue an Executive order prohibiting the sale or supply to Angola, other than through designated points of entry, or to UNITA, of arms and related materiel and petroleum and petroleum products, regardless of their origin, and activities that promote or are calculated to promote such sale or supply. These actions are mandated in part by United Nations Security Council Resolution No. 864 of September 15, 1993.
The Secretary of the Treasury is authorized to issue regulations in exercise of my authorities under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and the United Nations Participation Act, 22 U.S.C. section 287c, to implement these prohibitions. All Federal agencies are also directed to take actions within their authority to carry out the provisions of the Executive order.
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive order that I have issued. The order was effective immediately upon its signature on September 26, 1993.
I have authorized these measures in response to the actions and policies of UNITA in continuing military actions, repeated attempts to seize additional territory, and failure to withdraw its troops from the locations that it has occupied since the resumption of hostilities, in repeatedly attacking United Nations personnel working to provide humanitarian assistance, in holding foreign nationals against their will, in refusing to accept the results of the democratic elections held in Angola in 1992, and in failing to abide by the "Acordos de Paz." The actions of UNITA constitute an unusual and extraordinary threat to the foreign policy of the United States.
On September 15, 1993, the United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution No. 864, condemning the activities of UNITA and demanding that UNITA accept unreservedly the results of the democratic election of September 30, 1992, and abide fully by the "Acordos de Paz." The resolution decides that all states are required to prevent the sale or supply of arms and related materiel and petroleum and petroleum products to Angola, other than through named points of entry specified by the Government of Angola. The measures we are taking express our outrage at UNITA's continuing hostilities and failure to abide by the outcome of Angola's democratic election.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, September 26, 1993.
  