
    President Bush Submits Second Request For Hurricane Recovery Funds
Today's Presidential Action:
Today, President Bush Submitted To Congress A $51.8 Billion Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Request To Support Ongoing Hurricane Katrina Disaster Relief Efforts. The emergency funds would support the immediate needs of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), the Department of Defense (DoD), the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and other Federal government agencies in their relief and recovery missions. These additional funds will ensure that life-saving, life-sustaining, and recovery activities continue unhindered.
FEMA's Disaster Relief Fund Would Receive $50 Billion For Ongoing Disaster Relief
Supplemental Funds Would Support Disaster Relief Activities Carried Out Directly By FEMA And Other Federal Agencies. These activities respond to the immediate needs of evacuees, continue response and recovery, and begin repairs urgently needed by local government facilities such as schools and other public buildings and utilities. Specific actions and services to be funded by this request include ongoing food, shelter, and medical care for evacuees.




    Meeting The Needs Of Americans
    Shelter: Evacuees in need will be provided temporary housing or funds for hotels or apartments.
    Health Care: Emergency and urgent care, including up to $100 million for short-term hospital care is being provided.
    Income: Unemployment insurance payments will be provided to workers made jobless by the hurricane.
    Relief: FEMA individual disaster assistance payments are being provided to hurricane victims, and the assessment of private property damage has begun.


    Continuing The Response
    Logistics: DoD is working with FEMA to save lives through rescue and evacuation and is assisting in procuring equipment, supplies, transportation, and communications.
    Debris Removal: Debris removal will be ongoing and is necessary for continued rescue and evacuation, the delivery of relief, the repair of critical infrastructure, and the effective movement of law enforcement.
    FEMA operations: Funds will support continued direct action by FEMA including search and rescue, communications, and equipment.


    The Department Of Defense Continues To Play A Critical Role In Relief And Recovery. The supplemental would provide $1.4 billion for military personnel currently on the ground and saving lives, assisting communities, and providing relief supplies. DoD's near-term crisis-response needs include urgent repairs to DoD facilities, evacuated personnel costs, debris clean-up, and transportation costs.


    Making Immediate Repairs To Critical Infrastructure. The Army Corps of Engineers would receive $400 million to restore navigation locks and channels impacted by Katrina in the Gulf States and to continue repairs to pump stations and levees.

Other Provisions: Streamlined procurement authority for emergency officials to cut through red tape and make immediate purchases of up to $250,000 in support of relief efforts.

The President Has Directed All Agencies Of The Federal Government To Assist In Relief And Recovery




    The President Signed Into Law A $10.5 Billion Supplemental Appropriations Bill To Aid Victims Of Katrina. This initial down payment by the Federal government to fund search and rescue operations and provide food, drinking water, shelter, medical care, and temporary housing for tens of thousands of displaced citizens, as well as emergency protective and security measures, individual direct financial assistance, and logistics for relief supplies and equipment. DoD received $500 million to deploy military personnel to assist communities, save lives, and provide relief supplies, evacuate DoD personnel and their families, and secure and repair facilities.


    The President Issued Emergency Declarations To Other States Assisting In The Care Of Evacuees. Following Hurricane Katrina, the President issued emergency declarations for many additional states, permitting them to obtain Federal funding from FEMA for reimbursement for the cost of housing, feeding, and caring for thousands of citizens relocated from their home states as the result of the hurricane.


    The President Waived State Matching Fund Requirements For FEMA Activities In Louisiana, Mississippi, And Alabama. This action increases the Federal share of disaster relief from the current 75 percent to 100 percent for a period of 60 days, retroactive from the date of the major disaster declaration. The President's directive recognizes the unprecedented scope and impact of this disaster. These extra funds will allow the Federal government, through FEMA, to pay for 100 percent of the cost of debris removal and emergency protective measures taken by local first responders under the public assistance program.

The President's Emergency Declarations Prepared FEMA Relief Operations. On August 28th and 29th, the President issued emergency declarations for Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi before Hurricane Katrina made landfall, which allowed FEMA to identify and mobilize the equipment and resources necessary to alleviate the impact of the emergency.

  