
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Leslie R. Caldwell – Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division, Department of Justice
•      Richard Stengel – Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, Department of State
President Obama said, "I am proud that such experienced and committed individuals have agreed to serve the American people in these important roles. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Leslie R. Caldwell, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for the Criminal Division, Department of Justice
Leslie R. Caldwell is a partner at Morgan Lewis & Bockius LLP, a position she has had since 2004. From 2004 to 2009, Ms. Caldwell was Co-Chair of the firm's Corporate Investigations and White Collar Practice Group. She previously served as Director of the Department of Justice (DOJ) Enron Task Force from 2002 to 2004. From 1999 to 2002, she worked at the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Northern District of California, where she served as Chief of the Criminal Division and Securities Fraud Section. From 1987 to 1998, she served in several roles in the U.S. Attorney's Office for the Eastern District of New York, ultimately serving as Senior Trial Counsel for the Business & Securities Fraud Section and Chief of the Violent Criminal Enterprises Section. For her work on the DOJ Enron Task Force, Ms. Caldwell received the Attorney General's Award for Exceptional Service. She is also the recipient of the Attorney General's John Marshall Award for Trial of Litigation and the Attorney General's Award for Fraud Prevention. Ms. Caldwell received a B.A. in Economics from Pennsylvania State University and a J.D. from George Washington University Law School.
Richard Stengel, Nominee for Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, Department of State
Richard Stengel is the Managing Editor of Time Magazine, a position he has held since 2006. From 2004 to 2006, Mr. Stengel was the President and Chief Executive Officer of the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia. In 2000, Mr. Stengel served as a Senior Adviser and Chief Speechwriter for Bill Bradley's Presidential campaign. In 1999, Mr. Stengel was the Ferris Professor of Journalism at Princeton. From 1992 to 1994, Mr. Stengel worked with Nelson Mandela on his autobiography Long Walk to Freedom. Mr. Stengel has written for many publications and is the author of several books. He began his career at TIMEin 1981 as a writer and correspondent. He received a B.A. from Princeton University and was a Rhodes Scholar at Christ Church at the University of Oxford.
  