
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 14
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to New York City. In an afternoon ceremony at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, the President awarded Zachary Fisher the Presidential Medal of Freedom for his philanthropic work for Armed Forces service members, veterans, and their families.
In the late evening, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
September 15
In the afternoon, the President had a telephone conversation with Chicago Cubs outfielder Sammy Sosa on the occasion of Mr. Sosa's 62d home run, which tied the single-season home run record previously set by St. Louis Cardinals first baseman Mark McGwire.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Illinois, California, and Texas on September 25-27.
September 16
In the morning, the President held two separate meetings with President Vaclav Havel in the Oval Office and the Cabinet Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gordon Davidson and Cleo Parker Robinson as members of the National Council on the Arts.
September 17
In the morning, the President traveled to Cincinnati, OH, and in the evening, he traveled to Boston, MA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Clarence V. Monin to serve as a member of the Amtrak Reform Council.
September 18
The President announced his intention to nominate Bill Richardson to be U.S. Representative for the Forty-Second Session of the International Atomic Energy Agency General Conference.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rose Eilene Gottemoeller to serve as Assistant Secretary for Non-Proliferation and National Security at the Department of Energy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard N. Gardner and Dean R. O'Hare as members to the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiation.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a White House Millennium Lecture entitled, "Jazz: An Expression of Democracy," in the East Room.
  