
    
  Adds four state co-chairs and dozens of members to State Leadership Team

HOUSTON, Texas — Today, U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, announced an expansion of his South Carolina Leadership Team, including four additional state co-chairs, as well as dozens of county leaders, activists, and a growing pastors coalition.
Sen. Cruz added South Carolina State Representative Wendy Nanney and her husband Register of Deeds Tim Nanney of Greenville, along with business owners and Christian leaders Joe and Gladys Grimaud of Chapin as state co-chairs.
"I am honored to have conservative stalwarts Tim and Wendy Nanney and Joe and Gladys Grimaud join as co-chairs of our South Carolina effort," Sen. Cruz said. "Rep. Nanney has been a consistent conservative and prolific leader on life issues. Tim and Wendy's deep ties to community service and the faith-based community in the Upstate will give our campaign a significant boost throughout the state. The Grimauds are business owners, Christian leaders, and have a strong connection to the veteran community, giving them a unique perspective that will help us get our message out. I can't thank them enough for their service to our country and their support for our campaign."
Rounding out the leadership team, Cruz has added several members from across the state. The group includes small business owners, Republican women and GOP officers, Tea Party leaders, municipal elected officials, pastors, policy experts, faith-based community leaders, and Millennials.
"I appreciate the diversity and breadth of knowledge and experience in this group of leaders," Sen. Cruz added. "Their participation on the State Leadership Team ensures that our message of consistent conservatism and standing up to the Washington Cartel continues to spread. With this team our campaign will be very competitive in the Palmetto State."
State Leadership Team Members:
Celia Anderson, Moore
Dr. Tony Beam, Greer
Richard Smyrl Creed, Elgin
Kathleen Crosby, Aiken
Gladys and Joe Grimaud, Chapin
Ken Hagerty, Mt. Pleasant
Diane Hardy, Greenville
Elliott Kelley, Easley (Millennials State Director, BJU Student)
Rev. Scott Lewellyn, Campobello
Debbie Myers, Lexington
South Carolina State Rep. Wendy and Tim Nanney, Greenville
County and Faith-Based Leaders:
Greg Addison, Union
Judy and Steven Anderson, Summerville
Katy and Clifton Baker, Barnwell
Scott Bell, Moncks Corner
Dr. Todd Black, Boiling Springs
Rich Bolen, Lexington
Sam Brogan, Greenwood
Bill Burns, Beaufort
Margaret Burns, Spartanburg
Zackary Chapman, Cheraw
Chad Cheras, Clio
Duane and Karen Christopher, Rock Hill
Terry Cummings, Ridgeway
Pat Dansbury, Jasper
Pastor Mike Gonzales, Columbia
Mandy and Adam Grant, Simpsonville
Carol Hall, Westminster
Heidi Mercer Haynes, Moncks Corner
Rev. Gary Hensley, Spartanburg
Julie Hershey, Greenville
Mary Hill, Bishopville
Sam Hogan, Greenville (USC Student)
Sandra Hunter-Lewis, Prosperity
Rev. Todd Johnson, Taylors
Rev. Jeff Kelley, Easley
Phyllis Kelley, Easley
Kris Alan Kelly, Murrells Inlet
Rev. Kok Ksor, Spartanburg
Pastor Malcolm Lance, Taylors
Ron Nester, Orangeburg
Rev. Gene Scott Lewellen, Spartanburg
Deb Marks, Columbia
Pastor Roger McCullough, Roebuck
Margaret Mitchell, Rock Hill
Alex Morales, Columbia
Shelby Price, Kershaw
Youth Pastor Mitch Prosser, Lugoff
Rev. Randy Riddle, Conway
Dale Robinson, Union (former County Supervisor)
Dr. Glen L. Robinson, Greenville
Cindy Schafer, Bonneau
Peter Simms, Taylors
Franklin Y. Smith, Summerville
Rev. Robert Smith, Boiling Springs
Rick Tate, Easley
Linda Trotter, Dalzell
Konnie Wilson, Bluffton
Marcia and Steve Yaffe, Rock Hill
  