
    "The safety of American people is my absolute highest priority. We are sparing no expense."– President Donald J. Trump
ENSURING FEDERAL READINESS: The Trump Administration has taken extensive steps to ensure the Federal Government is prepared for Hurricane Florence and other storms. 

President Donald J. Trump and his Administration are monitoring multiple storms, including Florence, Olivia, Mangkut, and Isaac, and the President has mobilized the Federal Government to support response efforts. 
The Trump Administration began putting precautionary measures in place before Labor Day. 
In anticipation of these storms, President Trump granted emergency declarations for North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, Hawaii, and the Northern Mariana Islands.

As a result, FEMA will have more authorization to assist areas affected by these storms. 



THE RIGHT PEOPLE IN PLACE: The Trump Administration has already put thousands of Federal personnel in place to assist with response efforts for Hurricane Florence and other storms.

More than 4,000 Federal employees, including more than 1,000 from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), are working to provide support in response to these storms.
Federal teams have been deployed to support response operations, including teams to assist with incident management, medical assistance, and rescue operations. For example:

2 Army Corps of Engineers teams are on the ground in the Carolinas and Virginia to assist with planning for debris removal and temporary power support.
5 Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Disaster Medical Assistance Teams are deployed, including in parts of the Carolinas, Maryland, and Virginia. 
7 FEMA Incident Management Assistance Teams have been deployed, including in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia ahead of Hurricane Florence. 
16 FEMA Urban Search and Rescue Teams, including swift water rescue task forces, have been deployed, including in North Carolina and South Carolina. 
The Coast Guard is positioned in the Carolinas, Georgia, and Virginia to quickly mobilize to support search and rescue efforts. 



PROVIDING NEEDED RESOURCES: The Trump Administration is dedicating resources to help private and public partners prepare and respond to the impact of these storms. 

Federal agencies are working to support efforts by the private sector and State and local authorities to provide needed resources in response to these storms. 
The private sector is the first source for goods in affected areas, and if those supplies are exhausted State, local, and volunteer agencies provide needed supplies. 
Among the prepositioned resources are over 11 million meals, over 18 million liters of water, over 60 thousand cots, and over 1 million blankets. 
FEMA has more than two dozen Incident Support Bases, Distribution Centers, and other sites with life-saving supplies throughout the east coast, the Caribbean, Hawaii, Guam, and the Northern Marianas Islands.
FEMA National and Regional Response Coordination Centers have been activated to coordinate with State governments, non-governmental organizations, and the private sector. 

  