
    Alexandria, VA - Senator Lindsey Graham appeared on FOX News' The Real Story with Gretchen Carlsonyesterday where he discussed the Obama Administration seeking the Pope's help with releasing the American prisoners in Iran, dealing with the growing military and refugee problems in Syria and why he's best qualified to be Commander-in-Chief on day one.
Watch the full interview here:

Graham On Iran Doing Their Own Testing At Their Nuclear Sites: "I'm Going To Stop All Funding To The International Atomic Energy Agency."
"What could possibly go wrong here? This is a joke. Iran gets to do the samples, nobody gets to be with them when they test the samples. I'm going to stop all funding to the International Atomic Energy Agency. I'm going to try to until we see the side deal. I have a vote on the floor of the senate saying that we're going to suspend all funding until they give us the side agreement with Iran. This whole process is a joke - a dangerous joke. It would be funny if it wasn't so dangerous. So we're going to let every Democrat and Republican I hope vote on whether or not you want to take American tax payer dollars to give it to an international organization that will not allow the Congress to take a look at the deal that affects our national security."
On White House Reaching Out To The Pope: "If I Am President Of The United States, We Will Set This Deal Aside And The Hostages Will Come Home."
"This is a new low for me. This deal with Iran is dangerous to the region, it's a death sentence to Israel. You're giving an Ayatollah 100 billion dollars with no requirement to change his behavior, and you couldn't get four hostages out. A pathway to a bomb with a missile to deliver it. If I am president of the United States, we will set this deal aside and the hostages will come home. But having to rely upon the Pope, to me, is a new low to me."
On Who Is To Blame For Syria: "It Goes Back To President Obama Not Understanding The Role Of Leading From The Front... President Obama Screwed This Up."
"Well again, it goes back to President Obama not understanding the role of leading from the front. Three years ago, we all begged him to help the free Syrian army when they were intact, impose a new fly zone. Assad was on the ropes of a no fly zone, and Obama said no. We predicted that the free Syrian army would collapse, and they have. Gretchen, there's nobody left in Syria to train. He let that window close. It's going to be a lot harder now, but we're going to need a regional army to go in and destroy ISIL and push Assad out. If Assad doesn't leave, the war never ends. So this is a complete mess and with Syria, the worst is yet to come and these guys are coming here. Lebanon and Jordan are going to collapse if we don't deal with the problem in Syria. President Obama screwed this up."
On Comments By Trump And Carson Regarding Muslims: "If I'm President We're Going To Rally The People Within The Faith...We're Going To Destroy Radical Islam."
"I think you tell your children that it is not what Johnny or Susie does, it's what you should do. What I would've done is corrected the man and said the following, 'I don't doubt President Obama's faith' and here's what I would've told him. 'I've been to Iraq and Afghanistan. Radical Islam is a threat to humanity, and the biggest victims of radical Islam are other Muslims.' And that if I'm President, we're going to rally the people within the faith, the overwhelming majority, and together we're going to destroy radical Islam. That's what I've learned from my visits to the region, that most moms and dads in the region and the Muslim world don't want to turn their daughters over to ISIL. That's what I would've said.
"You know what I would say, there's 3,500 American Muslims in uniform and I have served with them in Iraq and Afghanistan. I went to a polling place during one of the elections in Afghanistan with a young man who grew up in Kabul, came to America and joined the American military, and we went to his high school where they were having an election and he was so proud. So I want to let every American Muslim serving in uniform know that I honor your service and I want to be your Commander-in-Chief. Dr. Carson is a good man, but he's created a religious test that our Constitution prohibits and to the American Muslim community, this is your country too. We're all in it together and to those American Muslims who have joined the American military to fight radical Islam, God bless you."
  