
    (SAN FRANCISCO, September 4, 2019)  Today, Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer released a preliminary jobs analysis of his Justice-Centered Climate Plan. The analysis, conducted by climate labor expert Betony Jones, found that the plan will create 46 million jobs over ten years.. It does not include indirect jobs, those created in the supply chain, and induced jobs, those created by the economic impact of the direct workers in their communities. Indirect and induced jobs would number in the millions more.
"Historical storms, wildfires, and droughts are affecting Americans every single day. They deserve a president that has a proven track record dealing with the effects of climate change, not one who offers only empty talk and overblown promises," said Steyer. "I would declare a national emergency on day one of my presidency, and put forth a plan to create 46 million jobs over ten years. It is time to put people ahead of polluting corporations and build a safer, secure, and more sustainable country for all our communities."
The Steyer plan will create these jobs through building new and upgrading existing infrastructure, and a Civilian Climate Corps. Jones, a White House veteran whose career has focused on the labor impacts of climate policy, said:
"Tom Steyer's plan reflects a vision where all jobs are greener, safer, and better paying. As we have seen from the policies Tom supported in California, well-designed climate policy can create good union jobs and support better access to those jobs. That's what his plan would do for the United States."
Tom Dalzell, a labor leader at the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers Local 1245, which represents California's largest utility, told Politico recently, "I think Steyer's probably the only one who knows what he's talking about who has experience with it."
Today's release includes the preliminary jobs numbers. A report including infrastructure investments and clean energy targets will be available on the website tomorrow.
  