
    The President today announced the appointment of Peter Roussel to be Deputy Press Secretary to the President.
Mr. Roussel's primary duties will be in the domestic area, providing guidance on issues both to the Press Office and the press. He will also have other duties as assigned. Mr. Roussel will report directly to Larry Speakes, the Principal Deputy Press Secretary.
Mr. Roussel joins the White House from the Houston Chamber of Commerce, where he has served as director of governmental relations.
Mr. Roussel's career in Washington began in 1969, when he was named press secretary to U.S. Congressman George Bush. In 1970 he returned to Texas to serve as campaign press secretary to Mr. Bush in the U.S. Senate race of that year.
Following Mr. Bush's appointment as U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations in 1971, Mr. Roussel was named his personal press officer. When Mr. Bush was appointed Chairman of the Republican National Committee in 1973, Mr. Roussel returned to Washington as his personal press officer until 1974, when Bush reentered the diplomatic service. At that point, Mr. Roussel began a period of service at the White House as Staff Assistant to President Gerald Ford. In 1975 he was appointed assistant to Chief of Staff Donald Rumsfeld, former U.S. Ambassador to NATO. Mr. Roussel served in a similar capacity to Richard Cheney, Mr. Rumsfeld's successor.
In 1976 Mr. Roussel served on the President Ford Campaign Committee as special assistant to James A. Baker III, national campaign director. In 1978 he was codirector of Mr. Baker's campaign for Attorney General.
Prior to his Washington service, Mr. Roussel was affiliated with the Houston advertising/public relations firm of Rives, Dyke and Co., and worked in numerous Texas political campaigns, including serving as media adviser in Senator John Tower's successful 1966 reelection effort. He has written and produced national award-winning documentary films and published articles.
Mr. Roussel graduated in 1965 from the University of Houston (B.S.). He was born October 23, 1941, in Houston, Tex., and resides in Houston.
  