
    While President Trump is fulfilling his presidential duty to nominate someone to fill the vacant United States Supreme Court seat, Joe Biden's liberal base is once again exposing the extreme measures they are willing to take to radically transform America. With Biden's running mate Kamala Harris proposing to pack the court, Speaker Nancy Pelosi threatening yet another baseless impeachment process, and hypocritical Democrat leaders patronizing the nomination process, it has become even more clear re-electing President Trump is critical to securing the future of America and protecting our Constitutional values.
Former chief counsel for nominations on the Senate Judiciary Committee Mike Davis discussed all this and more on tonight's 'The Right View' hosted by Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Lara Trump, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee Kimberly Guilfoyle, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications Mercedes Schlapp, and Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Katrina Pierson.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"While Joe Biden refuses to release his list of Supreme Court nominees, President Trump has been transparent with his list and will pick a qualified woman to fill the empty seat," said Mike Davis, former chief counsel for nominations on the Senate Judiciary Committee. "President Trump's track record for justices throughout the entire judicial branch is stellar, and whoever his third Supreme Court nominee is will uphold and defend the founding principles of our Constitution."
"A key aspect of President Trump's 2016 campaign was to secure the Supreme Court, and he once again is delivering on his Promises Made, Promises Kept with his third nominee to the High Court," said Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "The Democrats are absolutely losing their minds that the President is fulfilling his duty to the American people to fill that seat, and like always President Trump will not back down."
"This Supreme Court vacancy is yet another reminder of how critical this election is to secure the future of America," said Kimberly Guilfoyle, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee. "Joe Biden and the Democrats want to fundamentally change our country and the institutions that form our government, and re-electing President Trump is the only way we will stop their radical schemes."
"The Democrats do not play by the rules. They change the rules to push their increasingly dangerous and radical agenda to transform our nation," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications. "President Trump proves time and time again he is the only leader who will safeguard the values and freedoms granted to us through the Constitution and will always put the American people first."
"The absolute hypocrisy from Democrat leaders throughout this Supreme Court process has completely exposed the political games they will play to push their radical agenda," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "President Trump has proven the justices he nominates will protect and defend the founding principles of our country, and it is essential we re-elect this President for four more years."
  