
    Pool Reports by Breana Noble, The Detroit News



Sent:
Reports:




 September 2, 2020 09:24

 Local pool report #1: Checking In 
Good morning from Warren, Michigan, where Ivanka Trump, adviser to the president, will tour General Motors Co.'s Technical Learning University at the Warren Global Technical Center. She's expected to arrive at 10 a.m. with the tour beginning at 10:10 a.m. She will be accompained by Mary Barra, GM's CEO and chairman.
Also expected to be in attendance are:Karen Dunn Kelley, Deputy Secretary, U.S. Department of CommerceChris Barclay, Global Asset Manager, General MotorsElizabeth Reicherts, Vice President of External Affairs, General Motors
After the tour, Trump will speak with apprentices and GM employees.
The Technical Learning University trains hourly skilled trades workers and salaried manufacturing employees. In August, GM completed $2 million in updates for its robotics and manufacturing laboratory facilities.
People arriving to the center are directed to go through GM's COVID-19 screening, which includes a questionnaire and temperature check, and they receive a mask.
In the lobby of the university, some vehicle parts, including an engine, are on display. A screen also is playing a welcome video with information about the training facility.
Feel free to reach out with questions. 


 September 2, 2020 11:38

 Supplemental pool report #2: Tour 
Ivanka Trump's caravan arrived at 9:57 a.m.
GM CEO Mary Barra arrived in the lobby with Karen Dunn Kelley, deputy Commerce secretary, at 10:09 a.m.
Ivanka Trump entered through the back of the building and entered the lobby at 10:10 a.m.
All were wearing masks and stood a couple feet apart from each other.
Barra, Peter Thom, GM, vice president of global manufacturing and engineer, Trump and Barclay made a few brief remarks. She championed the president's investment in coding.
They then moved into the manufacturing laboratory at 10:20 a.m. Barra and Trump had a conversation (we couldn't hear a lot of the conversations).
She proceeded to Joshua Solomon, team leader for remote laser welding and flexible fabrication, who spoke about "smart factories" and automating machines and their ability to produce auto parts 100 times faster.Scott Hooker, engineering group manager for the advanced technology lab, also contributed.Ivanka Trump asked questions about the types of training and skills needed and how one larger tool worked.
She then around 10:34 a.m. began speaking with Jodi Fultz, labor relations manager and head of the apprentice program.
The group proceeded to a classrom with nine electrical apprentices from GM's assembly plant in Lansing Delta Township, Michigan, and an instructor. Apprentices Dan Leung and Zephirin Hunt did a demonstration of their "safety module" that ensures the line is ready to produce.Ivanka Trump joked that running the machine may be "really simple for you," after Hunt made a comment that it was, and that the jobs was definitely something "you want to get right."She asked about their experiences and how they found out about the program. Hunt had been a temporary worker for two yearks at the Flint Truck plant in Michigan. Leung had been at Delta Township for 27 years. Both said it was the first time they had heard about being able to apply for the apprentice program.
Back in the manufacturing lab, Fultz spoke with Barra, Kelley and Trump as press watched from a distance. Fultz pulled them to a robot training cell and spoke about it.
They then walked to a training area with several of the cells at which 10 apprentices were paired with one instructor. Ivanka Trump watched Sylvia Tran and Jeff Thompson, electrical apprentices from GM's Romulus Powertrain plant, demonstrate their Fanuc robot, which picked a part and place it, opened a door, place the part where it must go, close the door and lock.Trump, too, asked the apprentices aboit their backgroynd and what they wanting to be doing in 10-15 years.
The group stepped to the side for final brief remarks from Barra and Trump, who emphasized the president's work in "opening all the ways to career success."
They left the building at 11:08 a.m. 


 September 2, 2020 11:59

 Supplemental pool report #3: 
Here's a few quotes:
Trump, opening remarks:She recalled her visit in 2017 to Michigan talking about STEM education and offering computer science and coding in schools."This is a continuation of what we've been doing in this space, focusing on investing in our most important resource in this country, which is our people whether they be students or workers, as we'll see today.This is something the president has been passionate about since the day he took office, championing the American worker and creating pathways and opportunities for the American worker."She said there is need for upskilling workers as technology transforms jobs, and GM has been a partner in that campaign. She also lauded the company for making 10 million masks and N95 respirators and 30,000 ventilators for the national stockpile.
Mary Barra's opening remarks:"It's a world now where we need to have continual learning."
Peter Thom, opening remarks:Thom himself began as a 16-year-old apprentice at a different company."This is so special to me. ... Somebody invested in me and thought enough about us to teach us straight from school.""We spend so much timd talking about our awesome vehicles, and I think that's the right thing to do. Today it's cool we're going to talk about some awesome people."
Barclay, "unofficial dean" of the university, opening remarks:"The ley to this is to share with you the way we've melded advanced manufacturing into our training. It's not just 'How do we build the greatesr vehicle in the world?' It's, 'How do we make sure our people, the greatest asset we have, are available for our people?'" 




Pool Reports below by Hans Nichols, Axios



Sent:
Reports:




 September 2, 2020 10:18

 White House Pool Report #1 
Good morning from the White House. It's my inaugural WH print pool duty; be kind.
The out-of-town pool has been summoned for a COVID test in lower press.
The president is scheduled to drive to JBA at 11:45, diminishing the prospect of chopper talk.
There's some discussion around the West Exec stakeout camera of appearances by eco officials and I'll endeavor to cover and send toplines and quotes. 


 September 2, 2020 12:31

 In-town WH Pool #2 Kudlow gaggle. No news 
Note: Out-of-town pool was called at 11:25 for the drive to JBA.
No news from Kudlow, who dropped by the stake-out camera around 11:42 after a cable television appearance. Below should give you a flavor of the roughly ten minute gaggle.
At the end (and off-mic), there was some college football banter, which Kudlow misses and would like to see come back. Kudlow is conference-agnostic.
He also voiced his admiration for Dr. Scott Atlas, whom he has known since overlapping at Hoover at some point.
He disputed any suggestions that the economy is slowing down, but conceded that some of the high-frequency data show(s) that foot traffic to small businesses is slowing.
"One of the best indicators, it's a real time indicator is the ICM, which had a blowout number yesterday. The Manufacturing ICM, not only was the overall number higher than expected, but the new orders component, which is frankly a leading indicator of the whole economy, was a blowout."
"Auto sales are booming. Now auto sales are almost real time....They will get back to 17 million very soon...Inventories crushed in the second quarter....House and homebuilding, boom. Autos, boom. Factories and manufacturing, boom. Consumer spending, boom. Every one of them, V shapes. That means inventories need to be rebuilt....And that is going to add tremendous additional dimension to this recovery."
"I will acknowledge that the Apple mobility index is rising but slowly. I will acknowledge that, in the spirit of truth...But I wouldn't put too much weight on that. The trend is still up."
"Our job is not done. The pandemic, the virus is not over. The hardship, I appreciate that."
Kudlow cited the latest Atlanta Fed GDP estimate, etc. "The American economy is very resilient and I will say this, President Trump is not going to raise taxes. I do not understand why the other team continues to talk about $3 trillion tax hike. It makes no sense to me coming out of this pandemic.....Where are the Keynesians now that we need 'em."
He did not want to "forecast or negotiate" on ongoing talks with the Hill about potential additional stimulus or relief.
"Negotiations are taking place. Conversations on a daily basis." "There are some areas of agreement...one that I would put out there is help for small business....why not codify unemployment insurance....why not codify the payroll tax cut, the deferral...."
Kudlow didn't have a precise update on the number of states participating in the enhanced unemployment benefits or businesses signing up for the payroll tax deferral.
"I don't have a hard count...believe it's in the double digits" on UI.
He was supportive of the CDC moves on eviction moratorium. "Let's keep Americans at home and be safe." 


 September 2, 2020 17:37

 In-town pool report #3 Travel photo lid called at 5:36 
That's all for now. Will linger for a bit. 




Pool Reports below by Morgan Chalfant, The Hill



Sent:
Reports:




 September 2, 2020 11:31

 Out of town pool report #1 -- good morning 
Good morning on this humid day in Washington, D.C. I will be your pooler for President Trump's trip to Wilmington, N.C., today. The out of town pool was called to the stakeout location At 11:30 a.m. to gather for the president's departure. We will be motorcading to JBA. 


 September 2, 2020 12:19

 Out of town pool report #2 — leaving White House 
Motorcade departed the White House at 12:17p.m. Your pooler caught a slight glimpse of the president as the Beast drove by our van. With that, we are en route to JBA. 


 September 2, 2020 12:43

 Out of town pool report #3 — JBA 
Motorcade arrived at JBA and came to a stop at 12:40 p.m. Your pooler caught a quick glimpse of the president as he boarded AF1. He did not stop to talk to the press. I am told that Kayleigh McEnany and Alyssa Farah are both on board.
The ride was uneventful. A few onlookers snapped photos as we passed the National Mall in D.C. While en route, the president tweeted about Joe Kennedy's MA Senate Democratic primary loss. 


 September 2, 2020 12:48

 Out of town pool report #4 
Your pooler is told that Hershel Woody Williams is also on board. Alyssa Farah tweeted about him earlier: https://twitter.com/alyssafarah/status/1301185074893918214?s=21
At 12:47 p.m. we are taxiing for take off. Next stop, Wilmington. 


 September 2, 2020 13:38

 Out of town pool report #5 — arrival in Wilmington 
AF1 took off at 12:51p.m. We landed at Wilmington International Airport at 1:37 p.m. It was an uneventful, though bumpy, ride. 


 September 2, 2020 13:52

 Out of town pool report #6 — greeters 
There is a large group of likely hundreds of people waiting to see the president behind metal fencing on the tarmac. Music is playing. Some individuals are wearing masks but many are not.
>From the White House —
The President is met by:
Lara Trump
Robert YunaskaFather of Lara Trump
Linda YunaskaMother of Lara Trump
Senator Thom TillisUnited States Senator from North Carolina
State Representative Ted Davis, Jr.State Representative from North Carolina's 19th House District
State Representative Holly GrangeState Representative from North Carolina's 20th State House District and House Deputy Conference Chair 


 September 2, 2020 13:56

 Out of town pool report #7 
President Trump deplaned at 1:52p.m. He was welcomed with large cheers from the crowd. He gave a thumbs up and fist pump to Lara Trump and her parents. He also chatted with Tillis briefly. Pool was not close enough to hear their conversation. Mark Meadows and Robert O'Brien are also traveling with the president. The president is now delivering remarks to the crowd. 


 September 2, 2020 14:07

 Out of town pool report #8 
President Trump delivered brief remarks to the crowd. He talked about the great enthusiasm for his campaign and the strength of the stock market. He said that Biden "doesn't have a clue."
The president then went closer to the crowd to greet supporters. I have attached some photos.
At 2:05 p.m., we are loading into vans en route to Battleship North Carolina, scheduled to be a ten minute drive.
Trump will deliver remarks at the battleship on designating Wilmington as the first American World War II Heritage City. The White House will livestream the remarks. 


 September 2, 2020 14:20

 In town pool report #9 
Pool was loaded into vans but escorted back out at 2:06p.m. or so as the president had again taken the microphone to speak to the crowd.
The pool missed some of his remarks, but I heard him talking about mail in ballots and his administration's work for veterans. He thanked the crowd and said the stock market is "essentially at an all time record.
"Next year is going to be one of the best economic years this country has ever had," he said, but added that if Biden is elected it won't be because he will raise taxes.
Trump said he would win N.C., Florida, SC, Georgia, New Hampshire. He also talked about good polling in Minnesota.
"When they ask us in, we will be there within an hour," he said of Portland. He decried "looters and rioters."
Trump criticized Biden, claiming he did not mention "law and order" or "police" in his remarks this week. He again thanked the crowd.
Now we are loaded into vans again and rolling to the battleship as of 2:16 p.m. 


 September 2, 2020 14:30

 In town pool report #10 
Many supporters holding Trump-Pence flags and signs and American flags lined the route to the battleship. I didn't see many masks. My co-pooler spotted one "Q" sign. The press vans were also given some middle fingers. We also passed a group of first responders right as we pulled out of the airport. We arrived at the venue at 2:28 p.m.
>From the White House —
Today, President Donald J. Trump will designate Wilmington, North Carolina, as the first American World War II Heritage City.
 The following individuals are expected to attend:
 The White HousePresident Donald J. Trump
Trump Administration Secretary David Bernhardt, Department of the InteriorActing Director Margaret Everson, Acting Director of the National Park Service
Members of CongressSenator Thom Tillis, United States Senator from North CarolinaCongressman David Rouzer, United States Representative from North Carolina's 7th Congressional DistrictCongressman Ted Budd, United States Representative from North Carolina's 13th Congressional DistrictCongressman Dan Bishop, United States Representative from North Carolina's 9th Congressional District
External ParticipantsGreg Melikian, World War II Veteran, Phoenix, ArizonaHershel "Woody" Williams, World War II Veteran, Quiet Dell, West VirginiaPaul Phillips, World War II Veteran, Leland, North CarolinaBud Hampton, World War II Veteran, Chapel Hill, North CarolinaNorman Meares, World War II Veteran, Holden Beach, North CarolinaWilliam Borer, World War II Veteran, Hampstead, NC 


 September 2, 2020 14:39

 Out of town pool report #11 
President Trump began his remarks just after 2:30 p.m. The sky is looking rather threatening here and there have been some rain drops.
The remarks are being live-streamed on the White House website. 


 September 2, 2020 14:42

 Out of town pool report #12 — correction 
Pool reports 9 and 10 were accidentally labeled "in town" and should have been labeled "out of town." My apologies. 


 September 2, 2020 14:52

 Out of town pool report #13 — leaving 
The president wrapped his remarks at about 2:49 p.m. Pool is loading back into vans to drive back to the airport. Thunder can be heard overhead, though the rain held off. 


 September 2, 2020 15:11

 Out of town pool report #14 
Motorcade arrived back at Wilmington International Airport at 3:08 p.m. POTUS gave reporters a wave as he boarded the plane at 3:09 p.m. We are boarding now and wheels up for JBA momentarily. 


 September 2, 2020 16:11

 Out of town pool report #15 — JBA arrival 
AF1 took off from Wilmington at 3:18 p.m. We landed at JBA at 4:09 p.m.
One notable development on the flight — Hershel Williams came back to chat with the press cabin. His remarks were off the record. Mark Meadows came back to join him briefly as well. 


 September 2, 2020 16:22

 Out of town pool report #16 
President Trump deplaned at 4:19 p.m. He tweeted about Portland's mayor just before stepping off the plane. The president gave a wave to the press before stepping into the Beast.
Pool is loaded into vans and we're motorcading back to the White House. 


 September 2, 2020 16:43

 Out of town pool report #17 — WH arrival 
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 4:41 p.m.
Many thanks to my co-pooler Nikki Schwab for all of her help. Passing it off to in-town pool.
Have a wonderful Wednesday evening! 



  