
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 7
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC, from their vacation at Martha's Vineyard, MA.
September 8
In the morning, the President traveled to Gambrills, MD, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In an evening ceremony in the Oval Office, the President received diplomatic credentials from Ambassadors Arnold T. Halfhide of Suriname, Mohamad B. Chatah of Lebanon, Ahmed Ould Sid'Ahmed of Mauritania, Marwan Jamil al-Muasher of Jordan, Semere Russom of Eritrea, Abdulwahab Abdullah Al-Hajjri of Yemen, Ramiro Guelar of Argentina, Rene Antonio Leon Rodriguez of El Salvador, Crispin Grey-Johnson of Gambia, Alberto Maspons Guzman of Ecuador, Sean O'hUiginn of Ireland, and Rolf Ekeus of Sweden.
The President announced his intention to nominate David L. Aaron for the position of Under Secretary for International Trade at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert H. Beatty, Jr., to serve as a Commissioner on the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward M. Gabriel to be Ambassador to Morocco.
September 9
In the afternoon, the President participated in a roundtable discussion in the Cabinet Room with representatives of various ethnic groups.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ernesta Ballard to serve as a member of the Board of Governors of the U.S. Postal Service.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robin Lynn Raphel to be Ambassador to Tunisia.
September 10
The President announced the appointment of Secretary of State Madeleine Albright, Secretary of Defense William S. Cohen, Secretary of Education Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Health and Human Services Donna E. Shalala, and Federal Emergency Management Agency Director James Lee Witt as members of the American National Red Cross Board of Governors.
September 11
The President announced his intention to nominate Betty Eileen King to be U.S. Representative on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced the appointment of Bruce A. Lehman as Acting Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
September 12
In the morning, the President met with Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Chief Executive Tung Chee-hwa in the Oval Office.
The President announced his intention to nominate Katharine G. Abraham to serve a second term as Commissioner of Labor Statistics at the Department of Labor.
The President announced his intention to nominate Representative Corrine C. "Lindy" Boggs to be Ambassador to the Holy See.
The President announced his intention to nominate Stephen W. Bosworth to be Ambassador to Korea.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan King to serve as Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Labor.
The White House announced that the President will travel to Pittsburgh, PA; Little Rock, AR; and Houston, TX, September 24-28.
  