
    Pool Reports by Cheyanne M. Daniels, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:




September 9, 202311:41

VP pool report #1/hip hop
Guests have gathered at Vice President Kamala Harris's residence to celebrate the 50th anniversary of hip hop.
Today's celebration is in collaboration with Recording Academy's Black Music Collective and Live Nation Urban. Trailblazers and artists at today's event include Common, Jeezy, MC Lyte, Roxanne Shante and more.
In her remarks, VPOTUS will highlight the impact hip hop has on American culture the globe. The Vice President will also highlight the importance of honoring the contributions of musicians throughout history, demonstrate what music represents for Black Americans, and reinforce the Biden Harris Administration's commitment to celebrating the arts.
As the Vice President has previously said, hip-hop is a reflection of the diversity and ingenuity of the people of America.
Today's commemoration is the first time a sitting Vice President has ever hosted a celebration of this kind. More than 400 guests are expected to be in attendance.



September 9, 202312:12

VP pool report #2/hip hop
DC's local Black Alley has taken the stage to perform Lift Evr'y Voice and Sing.



September 9, 202312:16

VP pool report #3/hip hop
Members of the CBC including Sen. Raphael Warnock and Rep. Cori Bush as well as Gov. Wes Moore are also in attendance for today's commemoration.



September 9, 202312:32

VP pool #4/hip hop
Comedian Deon Cole takes the stage to discuss how "constant elevation" has brought Black Americans to the White House and introduces Doug Emhoff.
"This is a hip hop household!" Says Emhoff.



September 9, 202312:36

VP pool report #5/hip hop
Harvey Mason Jr., CEO of recording academy:
"Hip hop changed my world."
"There is not a single genre that has not absorbed something essential from hip hop."
Adds that Harris has been "fighting for our community and for our freedoms" from her time as DA to AG to Senate and now White House.
"Every day, Vice President Harris is fighting for the people. she's fighting for our people. our Vice President was rooted in hip hop, and it's essential to who she is. Isn't that cool."



September 9, 202312:42

VP pool report #6/hip hop
VP takes the stage in a pink suit and floral blouse to address the crowd.
Noticeable remarks:
"Hip hop is the ultimate American art form" that "now shapes every aspect of America's popular culture … Hip hop culture is American culture … hip hop is a declaration of identity."
"like all art forms, especially what comes from the streets, it is not without criticism or controversy, because here's the thing. It has always channeled the voices of the people. It tells the stories that don't make the news. But as the great Chuck D once said, rap is Black America's CNN. And by telling the truth, hip hop calls us to action."



September 9, 202312:48

VP pool report 7(final)/hip hop
VP: "half a century later, it is clear, hip hop will not be erased. Hip hop is here to stay."
VPOTUS introduces artist D-Nice, who brings up Kenny Burns
Remarks end and VPOTUS joins Emhoff to watch performances.




  