
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you very much, Marjorie. Thank you to SBA List for all that you do. I'm looking forward to our conversation in just a few minutes. But I didn't want to miss the opportunity to really just come by and say thank you to each and every one of you who, every day, are making this kind of a difference in the lives of young women and little babies.
And, Ikea and Ne-Lynn, it's wonderful to have you here. Congratulations.
MS. WELLENS: Thank you. We're happy to be here.
THE VICE PRESIDENT: She's glorious. And I'm looking very much forward to hearing about your experience with Women's Choice Network.
But to Amy and Natalie and Susan, who I think was one of the founders of the Women's Choice Network more than 30 years ago, just: Thank you. Thank you for the way you have poured yourselves into the lives of young women in this community, women who find themselves in some of those most challenging moments of their life. And the love and care that they receive at the Women's Choice Network has just changed lives. And it's amazing to think of more than 7,000 little babies, just like yours, that were born into this community and into this world because of the care and love, in part, of the Women's Choice Network.
So I really want to thank each and every one of you. I also want to thank Chuck for your great work at the Lozier Institute. Looking forward to hearing about that work.
And I want to bring greetings from the most pro-life President in American history. I couldn't be more proud to serve alongside a President who stands without apology for the sanctity of life. And the President knows, and I know for many years, that it's been people serving in crisis pregnancy centers that have really been the hands and feet of faith and compassion in this country.
And as we talk about Marjorie's conviction and mind that life is winning in America, I really believe that it is owing in large part to compassionate voices like those that are gathered around here, but also to the care that's taken place in places like the Women's Choice Network. So just thank you for your great work.
I also want to say I'm just delighted to be back again with Judge Cheryl Allen, who is a principled jurist but also, as I learned in my first conversation with her, she is a dedicated pro-life American. And we just — we appreciate your leadership not just here on the bench in Pennsylvania, but also your national voice for life has made a great difference.
And so, with that, I'd love to just listen and learn and hear about the great stories of the Women's Choice Network. And just, once again, on behalf of the President and on behalf of our entire administration, and Paul, who is with us today from HHS, just thanking for what you do here. Thank you for the lives that you've saved. Thank you for the lives that have been changed because of the care and compassion of places like Women's Choice Network. We're going to stay with you and work with you until the day comes when we put the right to life back at the center of American law.
And so thank you all very much, and just God bless you in your continued work. It's an honor to be here.
  