
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Kevin M. Kolevar, of Michigan, to be Assistant Secretary of Energy (Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability). This position was previously titled Assistant Secretary of Energy (Environment, Safety and Health). Mr. Kolevar currently serves as Director of the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability at the Department of Energy. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff to the Deputy Secretary at the Department of Energy. Earlier in his career, he served as a Legislative Assistant in the Office of United States Senator Spencer Abraham. Mr. Kolevar received his bachelor's degree from the University of Michigan.
The President intends to nominate Jane C. Luxton, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere. Ms. Luxton currently serves as a Partner at King and Spaulding, LLP. Prior to this, she served as a Partner at Seeger, Potter, Richardson, Luxton, Joselow and Brooks. Earlier in her career, she was a Partner at Vedder, Price, Kaufman, Kammholz and Day. She also served as Senior Trial Attorney at the Department of Justice. Ms. Luxton received her bachelor's degree from Harvard University and her JD from Cornell Law School.
The President intends to nominate Phillip L. Swagel, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Economic Policy). Mr. Swagel is currently a Resident Scholar at the American Enterprise Institute. Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff of the Council of Economic Advisors. Earlier in his career, he served as an Economist at the International Monetary Fund and the Federal Reserve Board. Mr. Swagel received his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his master's degree and PhD from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Thurgood Marshall, Jr., of Virginia, to be a Governor of the Board of Governors of the United States Postal Service, for the remainder of a nine year term expiring December 8, 2011.
  