
    Ladies and gentlemen:
I want to take this opportunity while I am on the border here at Laredo to express the appreciation of the American people and the appreciation, too, of the people of Mexico for the work that our people in the Customs group are doing.
As I have walked among you, I haven't had the chance to shake hands with you and to thank each of you, but when I see men who have served 30 years, 32 years-in fact, one was here when I came across this border on our honeymoon in 1940, 32 years ago--I think of how devoted your service has been to this country, and you have the gratitude of all.
Right at the present time, of course, the primary emphasis, as far as the American public is concerned, is the drive against narcotics, and particularly heroin, and I know all the work that you are doing in this particular field. Let me say that in that respect you have the total backing of the Federal Government and you also have the total backing of the American people.
Now, I realize that when you see a movie or one of those television specials about how exciting it is to be a Customs official and how somebody is a hero and he is consequently rewarded by his city or by his country, or the rest, I realize that most of you know that that is the way it is in the movies or on the TV. But you know that for the most part in your work it is long hours, sometimes it is very dull, sometimes it is very routine. You go through car after car and there doesn't seem to be any reason for doing it--and then one time something happens. Very few of you are really recognized for the work that you are doing, but all of you are vitally important, and we are grateful for that.
When I speak of backing you up, let me emphasize one thing. I met with a group of 40 young lawyers from all over the United States who have the responsibility for conducting prosecutions by the Federal Government in this field. They told me that one of their problems was that when they found a heroin pusher and when they brought him to trial and when he was convicted, that in many cases a lenient judge or a lenient probation officer would let him out, and then he went right back to what he had been doing before.
Now let us clearly understand: We naturally want to have concern for those that are found guilty of this kind of activity. But the primary responsibility we all have is concern for the victims of those who are the pushers of heroin, this deadly drug. And in that connection, let me say that I have issued orders to the entire Administration to do everything we can at the national level to back up our law enforcement people.
If you go out, if you risk your lives in order to bring one of these people to justice, then it is the responsibility of the courts to see to it that justice is done to them so that they cannot be let off too soon to practice their nefarious traffic again.
Let me just close with one thought that may be of interest to you. Sometimes this is very impersonal. I mean, we see it in terms of statistics. You were telling me how many pounds of heroin had been picked up and how much marihuana, and so forth and so on, how many cars you go through. And I know that when you make out those reports, it must be very, very tiring and very boring at times.
If you think of it in terms of statistics. it really isn't worthwhile; you really ought to have some other job. But I would like for each one of you to think of it in terms of one individual boy or girl in this country who, as a result of what you have done, does not become a heroin addict. And if what you have done has helped make that come true, it is all worthwhile.
In 1968, when I was a candidate for President, I received a letter from my home State of California. It was unsigned. It was from a girl 19 years old, who lived in San Diego. She said she was from a very good family. She had become addicted to heroin, and then the deterioration that occurs inevitably in those cases had happened to her.
The closing paragraph of her letter I want to read to you so that we can all understand what your job means, not in statistics, but in human, personal terms. She says, "Mr. Nixon, I think you are going to be elected. If you are, as President, will you try to do something to see that what happened to me does not happen to other young people across this country."
That is your job. That is my job. Let's think of those young people, let's see that what happened to this 19-year-old does not happen to other young people across this country.
Finally, one other thought that is not perhaps related to what I have said, but in a way it is. The great majority of the people that cross this border, whether they are Mexicans coming to visit the United States or Americans returning from Mexico, are good, law-abiding citizens. Be courteous to them. Be kind to them.
I remember, when I crossed the border in 1940, how very kind the Mexican officials were to us, a newlywed couple from California on our honeymoon. And I also remember that when we came back across the border at Laredo, first, naturally, after all we had seen, we were still very glad to get back home, but I remember how very kind and thoughtful the Customs officials were. They went through our car, as they should have. They didn't find anything. But they didn't make us feel unwelcome.
And I simply want to say that in your long hours and your long days, do your job, go after those that are guilty, but, also, make the good people--and that is the great majority, whether they are Mexicans or Americans--make them feel welcome, make them feel that it is good to be in the United States of America.
Thank you.
  