
    Pool Reports by Maddie Gannon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




September 25, 202316:01

SGOTUS pool report #1 Yom Kippur event begins
Good afternoon,
The Second Gentleman entered the tent at Adas Israel Congregation at 3:48pm. Members of the audience stood up and clapped as the Second Gentleman entered. He waved to those in attendance as he walked in.
The conversation— moderated by Rabbis Lauren Holtzblatt and Aaron Alexander — began at 3:49pm. The three are seated up front with the Second Gentleman in the middle.
The livestream link for today's event can be found here: https://www.adasisrael.org/hhd-livestream-hamakomtent
The event is taking place outside under a large white tent decorated with purple, coral, red and cream fabric on the ceiling.
Audience members are seated in white picnic chairs. The Second Gentleman's team says the event is open to the public.
Passing along from the WH:
At 3:45 PM ET, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will participate in a fireside chat to mark Yom Kippur and the conclusion of the High Holidays. Rabbis Lauren Holtzblatt and Aaron Alexander will moderate the conversation. This event at Adas Israel Congregation will be pooled press.
The Second Gentleman attended Rosh Hashanah services at Adas Israel Congregation.



September 25, 202317:09
SGOTUS pool report #2 event ends 
The event ended at 4:38pm and SGOTUS briefly mingled with some members of the audience before leaving.
SGOTUS, the first Jewish spouse of any vice president or president, spoke about how his faith has played a large role over his time as Second Gentleman.
"I'm sure you're not all Democrats, but we're all Jews," he said to the audience, noting people come up to him to say "we didn't vote for you and never will but thank you so much."
He told a story about the president dragging him into the Oval Office one day to talk about antisemitism, joking that initially "I literally thought I was in trouble."
He noted his role in the White House's efforts to counter antisemitism. "This week President Biden will be announcing some landmark additions to what we are doing in a day or two. So stay tuned for that. I can't tell you yet, this is a teaser," he said.
Asked about what he misses about Los Angeles, SGOTUS reminisced about how he raised his children there, how his parents are there and how his career was there but added he will get back to that "when we save democracy."
He also mentioned his son his getting married soon.
Have a great night all




  