
    Pool Reports by Sabrina Eaton, The Plain Dealer



Sent:
Reports:




 September 24, 2020 09:02

 In-town pool report #1 - Good morning 
I'm today's print pooler. White House staffers are currently administering coronavirus tests to the press corps. At 10 AM, President Trump is scheduled to pay respects to Associate Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg at the U.S. Supreme Court. At 3 PM, he's supposed to leave DC and head to North Carolina and Florida. 


 September 24, 2020 09:38

 In-town pool report 2a 
?Pool is heading to press vans for trip to the Supreme Court, where President Trump will pay respects to Justice Ginsburg. Staffers have told us we may have to remain in the vans when we are at the court, which makes it likely we won't be able to see much. 


 September 24, 2020 09:43

 In-house pool report 2b -Leaving White House now 
?Pulling out of the White House now. Time is 9:43 am. 


 September 24, 2020 09:53

 In-house pool report 2c - Arrived at court 
Arrived at court at 9:50 and ran from back to front. We waitingfor the president to emerge 


 September 24, 2020 09:58

 In-house pool report 3 - chants from demonstrators 
Chants are erupting from a crowd about a block from the court. They are shouting "Honor her wish." Trump has not yet emerged. 


 September 24, 2020 10:05

 WH pool report 4 - Trump emerges then departs 
Trump could briefly be seen behind Ginsburg's casket. Almost immediately afterwards, pool was hustled back into the vans behind the court. The caravan left the court at 10:01 am. 


 September 24, 2020 10:07

 In-house pool report 5 - back at the White House 
The motorcade arrived back at the White House at 10:06 am. 


 September 24, 2020 10:17

 In-house pool report 6 - Trump is charting with people 
Back at the White House, Trump can be seen talking to several people outside the cabinet room. They include Mark Meadows and Pat Cipollone, according to photographers who have good lenses. Some say they alsosee Robert O'Brien. 


 September 24, 2020 11:33

 In-house pool report 7 - More details from Trump's visit to the Supreme Court 
Now that we are done hustling in and out of press vans, here are a few more details from the brief trip to the Supreme Court. The drive there and back was uneventful, with few spectators on the route. The press was corralled near the bottom of the Supreme Court steps, on the Senate side of the building. The protestors who boo-ed Trump and shouted "Honor her wish" were closer to the Library of Congress. Ginsburg's casket was at the top of the steps, covered by an American flag, near the center of the building. There was a line of white flowers in front of her casket. A uniformed masked man was behind it. Two masked civilians, one male, one female, were at either side of the casket, in front of the pillars. President Trump and First Lady Melania Trump briefly appeared amid the court's pillars, behind Ginsburg's casket. They wore masks, but it was not easy to see much else from our vantage point. Then we were told we had to run back to the vans.
CSPAN's cameras had a better view of President Trump's appearance. Here's the link: https://www.c-span.org/video/?476211-1/president-trump-lady-pay-respects...
Also, the headline on Pool Report 6 should have said Trump was "chatting" with people, not charting with them. Sorry about that, and any other typos. 


 September 24, 2020 11:40

 In-house pool report 8 - WH Press secretary will have a 1 PM briefing 
There's been an addition to the schedule since earlier this morning: Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany will hold a press briefing at 1 PM. 


 September 24, 2020 12:37

 In-house pool report 9 - Larry Kudlow gaggle 
National Economic Council Director Larry Kudlow held a gaggle for around 10 minutes in the White House driveway around noon. He discussed TikTok a bit, saying "we're working our way through a lot of details on the bid." Here are a few more highlights:
On meetings with his British counterpart, Kudlow said the U.S. and Britain are all grappling with ways to improve their economies after the coronavirus pandemic and the USTR is conducting free trade talks with the UK, in light of its departure from the European Union.When asked when the United States would be back to pre-coronavirus unemployment levels, he said "We're moving in the right direction." He predicted 20 percent plus growth in the second half of this year and said he hopes that "with good policies" we can get back to the peak where we were in late 2019 by the middle of next year. "The policies have to be compatible with growth," he said.
He said he would not expand on President Trump's comments yesterday about the peaceful transfer of power. He said Trump's viewpoint is that it's necessary to nominate a 9^th Supreme Court justice.He said talks on an economic assistance package are ongoing. The administration has several asks, such as small business assistance and money for school openings. He said they want assistance to be smart and targeted, not another $3 trillion package."How that winds up, I don't know," Kudlow said.
When asked whether executive action is being contemplated to help aspects of the economy, Kudlow said Trump has already issued executive orders on unemployment assistance, payroll tax deferral, and moratoriums on evictions and student loan payments. Those still stand and the administration will do as much enforcement and implementation as it can, Kudlow said. 


 September 24, 2020 13:22

 In-house pool report 10 - 2 minute warning before press conference 
?Today's delayed 1 pm press conference with White House press secretary Kayleigh McEnany will start in 2 minutes, we've been told. You can watch it live here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=euw3evCCJbE&feature=youtu.be


 September 24, 2020 13:46

 In-house pool report 11 
?The Kayleigh McEnany press conference ended at 1:45 pm. It lasted around 20 minutes. 


 September 24, 2020 14:26

 In-house pool report 12 - Pool is gathering for Trump departure 
?We are heading to the lawn now. 


 September 24, 2020 15:06

 In-house pool report 13 - Trump emerges 
?Marine 1 landed at 2:33 pm. Trump emerged at 3:04 pm from the cabinet room. He is now talking to the press. 


 September 24, 2020 15:18

 In-house pool report 14 - Trump takes off 
?Trump boarded the helicopter at 3:12. It took off at 3:16.He said he's getting close to a pick on a Supreme Court Justice, but did not reveal who that was.He discussed the health care message he plans to deliver on the road, and discussed his discomfort with mail in ballots. More to come. 


 September 24, 2020 15:53

 In-house pool report 15 - More details from Trump's comments before boarding the helicopter 
Trump said he "got rid of the individual mandate" from the "Obamacare disaster," and there will be a "tremendous number of people" at his upcoming"America First Healthcare Vision" appearance.
Asked whether upcoming presidential election results will only be legitimate if he wins, Trump said "We have to be very careful with the ballots. He described a "scam" where they found ballots in wastepaper baskets and a river."We want to make sure the election is honest, and I'm not sure that it can be," said Trump.On his upcoming Supreme Court announcement, Trump said:
"Saturday afternoon, five o'clock, is going to be a very important day in the history of our country. I think it's going to be a very monumental, very good choice.Asked what he has to say to the family of Breonna Taylor, Trump said: "I think it's a sad thing and I give my regards to the family. I also think it's so sad what's happening with everything about that case, including law enforcement. So many people suffering."He was also asked about endorsing Sen. Susan Collins in Maine. Trump touted his own actions on behalf of Maine, saying he had freed up "5,000 square miles of ocean that was taken away by President Obama, and for the lobster people, the people that go out and get us those great lobsters that we all like so much, I freed that whole business up and the fishermen too."
"I haven't seen polls on Susan, but I hope she does well," he said. 




Pool Reports below by Sebastian Smith, RealClearPolitics



Sent:
Reports:




 September 24, 2020 15:31

 Out of town travel pool report #1 
President Trump disembarked Marine One at an overcast JBA at 3:26 pm, wearing the blue tie today. He then boarded Air Force One (the big version) with a low wave but did not come over to take questions from pool.
Also with Trump were O'Brien, Meadows, and J. Kushner.
We are wheels up shortly.
First stop is Charlotte, NC, where Trump is giving a speech on his "America First Healthcare Vision." This is due to start at 4:30 pm.
We will then fly to Jacksonville for a 7:00 pm scheduled campaign rally. From there we continue to Miami, where the president will spend the night at his Doral golf resort. 


 September 24, 2020 16:49

 Out of town travel pool report #2 
AF1 landed in Charlotte at 4:34 pm after a flight that saw no visitors to the press cabin.
President Trump disembarked at 4:47 pm, carrying a large black umbrella against a smattering of rain. Only greeters were three Air Force personnel.Spotted at the airport: Jason Miller, Ronna Romney McDaniel, Alyssa Farrah, and Kayleigh McEnany.
We are now motorcading to the "America First Healthcare Vision" event. 


 September 24, 2020 16:53

 Out of town travel pool report #2b 
? For anyone asking, these were the three uniformed greeters:
>From the WH
The President is met by:
Col Kevin HarkeyVice Commander, 145th Airlift Wing, North Carolina Air National Guard
1Lt Zak LeddyContracting Officer, 145th Airlift Wing, North Carolina Air National Guard
A1C Austin Dover145th Airlift Wing, North Carolina Air National Guard 


 September 24, 2020 16:50

 Out of town travel pool report #3 
Passing on from White House's Judd Deere the following:
Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's remarks on the America First Healthcare Vision (as prepared)…Today, I will lay out my vision for a healthcare system that puts patients first, families first, and AMERICA FIRST.…We are delivering better care, with more choice, and at much lower cost.…My plan expands affordable insurance options, reduces the cost of prescription drugs, ends surprise medical billing, increases fairness through price transparency, streamlines bureaucracy, accelerates innovation, STRONGLY protects Medicare, and ALWAYS protects patients with pre-existing conditions.…By contrast, the Democrat Party is pushing a socialist nightmare. Their plans will result in rationing care, denying choice, putting Americans on waitlists, driving the best doctors out of medicine, and delaying life-saving cures.…Since the plague arrived from China, we have seen our doctors, nurses, first responders, scientists, and researchers at their very best.…Under Operation Warp Speed, my Administration is developing a vaccine in RECORD TIME. Four vaccines are now in the final stage of clinical trials.…The vaccine will be safe and effective. It will DEFEAT the virus and it will END the pandemic.…The America First Healthcare Plan will be a core part of our national renewal.…I will sign a historic executive order outlining this plan and directing my administration to implement these critical reforms....Under our plan, you will have the freedom to shop for the option that is right for your family. These options include new affordable choices that cost up to 60 percent less than Obamacare.…We are also offering Association Health Plans that allow small businesses to pool together and offer more affordable policies to their employees.…My plan will also revolutionize access to telehealth.…Today, I am signing a historic executive order that ENDS surprise medical billing. The days of ripping off American Patients are OVER.…vMy plan also includes the vital reform of PRICE TRANSPARENCY. […] Both hospitals and insurance companies will be required to post all of their prices online.…For years, American patients have subsidized socialist nations by paying the highest drug prices in the world, while foreign countries got away with paying far less. Under my plan, we will pay the exact same price as other countries.…The American people pay an average of over 3 times more for medicine than Canadians. […] We will finally allow the safe and legal importation of prescription drugs from CANADA.…33 million Medicare Beneficiaries will soon receive a card in the mail containing $200 they can use to help pay for prescription drugs.…Under my plan, hundreds of thousands of Medicare patients will see their insulin costs capped at just $35 a month.…We will accelerate our relentless effort to save seniors money on their premiums.…The historic action I am taking today includes the first-ever executive order to affirm that it is the official policy of the United States Government to protect patients with pre-existing conditions.…The new Democrat lie is that they will cover pre-existing conditions – but in truth, their socialist takeover, economic shutdown, and coverage for illegal immigrants will collapse our economy, and make our healthcare system totally insolvent.…We will put you in control of your own medical records. We will require doctors to make your records available electronically.…We will permanently bring our medical supply chains back home.… 


 September 24, 2020 17:01

 out of town travel pool report #4 
?The POTUS motorcade traveled barely a minute to a hanger at the airport that has been converted for the "America First" healthcare speech.About 200 guests are seated close to each other at the indoor facility. Many wear masks. Many, however, do not. Many are in white coats and the president began by noting how many doctors were in the room.
He was greeted with enthusiastic applause.
His remarks are being broadcast live. 


 September 24, 2020 17:41

 out of town travel pool report #5 
?President Trump wrapped up remarks on his "healthcare vision" at 5:40 pm.
This was largely a traditional speech read from a teleprompter but in one lengthy portion, POTUS took out several pieces of paper, saying they were "a list of things we've done," and proceeded to read from it.
The address was frequently interrupted by applause. When President Trump said he loves North Carolina people, someone yelled "we love you too."
The speech then ended with the audience standing and clapping as they watched the president sign an executive order on his reforms. Pool has asked the White House for details on who the guests were and where they work.
We will now motorcade the very short distance back to AF1. 


 September 24, 2020 17:47

 Out of town travel pool report #6 
?President Trump boarded AF1 at 5:47 pm without talking to pool. We are wheels up shortly, headed to a re-election rally in Jacksonville, FL. 


 September 24, 2020 19:15

 Out of town travel pool report #7 
AF1 landed at 6:57 pm in sunny Jacksonville. The bass thump from the song "macho man" could be heard and felt through the sides of the plane.
Pool now set up in a pen. There is a large crowd, entirely without social distancing - and in many cases without masks - though this is all outside.
POTUS appeared at 7:13 to loud cheers and "God bless the USA."
This is all of course broadcast live. I will endeavor to send color and highlights. 


 September 24, 2020 19:48

 Out of town travel pool report #8 
?Some color and highlights from the Jacksonville rally:
President Trump began speaking as the sun went down, starting almost immediately with an attack on the "fake news."
The crowd is as tightly packed as can be. It is enthusiastic, cheering much of what the president says -- and booing or laughing loudly at the appropriate times too.
Placards seen:
"This Is A Peaceful Protest"
"Black Voices For Trump"
"Cops For Trump"
"Veterans For Trump"
Chants covered the usual "USA, USA," and "Four more years," but also the newer chant at his rallies of "We love Trump." There are a lot of the red MAGA hats.
At one point, when the president was again calling the media fake, the crowd turned and pointed fingers at camera crews and chanted loudly. It is not easy to hear everything from our pen, which is off to the side and subjected to some loud airport-related background noise. But they seemed to be chanting: "hear our voice."
Co-pooler Anne Gearan spotted a bit of ruckus where muscly security guards escorted out three people, apparently protesters. The guards cleared a path through the crowd, yelling at Trump supporters: "Do not touch."
The speech, using Air Force One as the backdrop, featured the usually eclectic themes. Here are a few highlights from the opening 30 minutes, though check against a playback because of the difficulty in hearing accurately from our pen.
POTUS launched almost directly into saying that the media was "fake news."Said: "We love Hispanic Americans."Said no one shows the polls in which he is winning. "They don't show those polls… we're winning by a lot."Vowed: "We will ensure that America ever becomes a Socialist or Communist country."Predicted: a 25 to 30 pct GDP increase in 3rd quarter "unless a very sleepy guy gets in and quadruples everbody's taxes."Said: Biden is "the lowest energy individual I've ever seen" but suggested he could take something and "he'll be like Superman for about 15 minutes."Referred again: to secret weapons, saying "no country in the world every possessed" such weapons. "Hope to God we never have to use it."Sarcastically said: about Rep. Ilhan Omar -- "she loves our country very much."Biggest cheers: when he talked about law enforcement and the SCOTUS replacement.Biggest boos: when he talked about the media and abortion.
Trump: "If you want to save America, you must get out and vote." 


 September 24, 2020 20:16

 Out of town travel pool report #9 
President is wrapping up after an hour and pool is being hustled out of the area.
Footnote to the incident described in report #8 where protesters were expelled: photos confirm that one protester had "Black Lives Matter" on her shirt and another had this written on her mask. 


 September 24, 2020 20:27

 Out of town travel pool report #10 
POTUS boarded AF1 with a final wave at 8:25 pm. We are taking off shortly for Miami. 


 September 24, 2020 21:38

 Out of town travel pool report #11 
?AF1 landed in a steamy Miami at 9:27 pm after a flight without visitors to the press cabin. Fox News, with headlines on "mob rule," Hunter Biden, the Steele Dossier, the "greatest election choice in history," and live footage from Louisville, played non stop on the overhead screens.
President Trump came out via the plane's lower stairs at 9:35, gave a quick wave, and entered the Beast without talking to the pool. We are now motorcading to the president's Doral golf resort where he will spend the night. 


 September 24, 2020 21:52

 Out of town travel pool report #12 + lid 
? President Trump's motorcade entered the Doral club at 9:47 pm. Pool unable to see POTUS going inside.
The WH has given a travel/photo lid. 



  