
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 22
Richard Frank Celeste,
of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to India.
Submitted September 24
Shaun Edward Donnelly, of Indiana, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Maldives.
George Caram Steeh III, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Barbara K. Hackett, retired.
Arthur J. Tarnow, of Michigan, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Julian A. Cook, Jr., retired.
Edward S. Walker, Jr., of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Israel.
Submitted September 25
David Timothy Johnson, of Georgia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Head of the United States Delegation to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe.
Stanley Tuemler Escudero, of Florida, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Azerbaijan.
Daniel Fried,
of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Poland.
Stanley Marcus, of Florida, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Circuit, vice Peter T. Fay, retired.
B. Lynn Pascoe, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Negotiator for Nagorno-Karabakh.
James Carew Rosapepe, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Romania.
Peter Francis Tufo, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Hungary.
David W. Wilcox, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Joshua Gotbaum.
  