
    Today, Biden for President announced new Spanish language and English ads emphasizing the importance of the Latino community. The ads highlight Joe Biden's acknowledgment of the contributions of the Latino community and his plans to bring economic prosperity, while calling out Donald Trump's dismissive tune and failed leadership that have devastated the community.
In Arizona, Florida, Minnesota, North Carolina, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin markets "Somos Alguien" We Are Someone will run on TV and digital. The Spanish language ad focuses on Trump's attack on Obamacare during a pandemic that has cost more than 200,000 lives. In a rally speech, Trump calls coronavirus "incredible" and says it "affects elderly people," "it affects nobody." More than 42,ooo Latino lives lost include somebody — a parent, grandparent, uncle and aunt. This ad reminds Trump that the lives of Latinos, especially the elderly, have meaning. They are not "virtually nobody," and they will prove it at the polls.
In Arizona, Florida, Nevada, Pennsylvania, and North Carolina "Keep Our Country Running" will run on digital platforms. The English language ad features a key moment from Joe Biden's speech in Florida, kicking off Hispanic Heritage Month, where he says the pandemic has shown "how much we rely on people with Hispanic roots to keep our country running. We not only need to thank them, we need to pay them and treat them with dignity." The message reinforces Biden's belief of how essential Hispanic workers are to powering our country's economic growth.
Additionally, "M'hija" My Daughter, a bilingual radio ad that will also run in Texas, features a dialogue between a mother and daughter discussing the importance of the upcoming election and having a plan to vote. It reminds Latinos of the power they have to elect Trump out of office and registering to vote. The ad points them to voyavotar.com to check their current registration status.
"Suckers and Losers" repeats Trump's words of calling military veterans "suckers and losers." This digital ad will run in Texas and reminds listeners that military veterans are not "suckers and losers" as Trump claims, but rather the heroes of our country.
  