
    The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Ret. General Wesley K. Clark.
"The world has reached a critical point, and we need a leader in the White House with the courage, intelligence and humility to navigate through many troubling challenges to our security at home and abroad. I believe Senator Clinton is that leader, and I whole-heartedly endorse her for President of the United States," General Clark said. "Our economic and national security has become more complicated than ever before, and we deserve a leader who draws on wisdom, compassion, intelligence and moral courage - in short, we need Hillary Clinton. She is tough but fair, a rock-solid leader equal to the many weighty challenges ahead of us."
After 34 years of service in the United States Army, General Clark rose to the rank of four-star general as NATO's Supreme Allied Commander, Europe. General Clark commanded Operation Allied Force, which saved 1.5 million Albanians from ethnic cleansing in Kosovo, and he was responsible for the peacekeeping operation in Bosnia.
General Clark's awards and honors include the Presidential Medal of Freedom, The State Department Distinguished Service Award; the US Department of Defense Distinguished Service Medal;(five awards), The US Army Distinguished Service Medal(two awards), The Silver Star, the Bronze Star (two awards), the Purple Heart, and Honorary Knighthoods from the British and Dutch governments.
After his retirement in 2000, General Clark became an investment banker, author, commentator, and businessman. He is the author of the best selling books Waging Modern War: Bosnia, Kosovo and the Future of Combat and Winning Modern War: Iraq, Terrorism and the American Empire.
"I am deeply admiring of General Clark's record of leadership for our country and his appreciation of the complexity of the world in which we live today," Clinton said. "I'm looking forward to his involvement in my campaign and working together to bring the change this country needs."
  