
    Across the nation, major law enforcement organizations and police unions say President Trump is in their corner while Biden has abandoned them
Key Takeaways:

President Trump has been endorsed by more than a dozen law enforcement organizations representing nearly 950,000 members nationwide
Law enforcement leaders have said President Trump has their back, and his Administration has delivered much needed support

The National Fraternal Order of Police (FOP) praised President Trump's "crystal clear" support for law enforcement
National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) President Michael McHale said President Trump is needed "during this time of unfair and inaccurate" anti-police narratives
The International Union of Police Associations (IUPA) said President Trump has done more for law enforcement in two and a half years than the Obama-Biden Administration did in eight
The Southern States Police Benevolent Association (SSPBA) has called President Trump "the true law enforcement" candidate
The National Troopers Coalition (NTC) praised President Trump's "strong" leadership and his "unwavering stance" against those who continue to attack law enforcement
The Texas Municipal Police Association (TMPA) called President Trump a "true partner" of police
The Arizona Police Association (APA) called President Trump the clear "law and order candidate"
The New York State Law Enforcement Officers Union (Council 82) has applauded President Trump's "strong and unwavering support for law enforcement"


Meanwhile, Joe Biden has abandoned the men and women of law enforcement, failing to stand up to the radical, far-left that supports defunding and abolishing police

National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) President Michael McHale criticized Biden for turning his candidacy over "to the far left" and anti-police "radicals"
The Texas Municipal Police Association (TMPA) criticized Biden for surrounding himself with "the loudest voices calling for defunding police" departments across the country
New York State Troopers Police Benevolent Association (NYST PBA) President Thomas Mungeer said Biden has turned his back on law enforcement
National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) President Brandon Judd criticized Biden, saying he failed to protect the border as Vice President, and called his immigration plan a "recipe for disaster"?
Arizona Police Association (APA) President Justin Harris has condemned Democrats' call to defund police departments, saying it is "irresponsible" and "dangerous"



PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS BEEN ENDORSED BY MORE THAN A DOZEN LAW ENFORCEMENT ORGANIZATIONS, REPRESENTING NEARLY 950,000 MEMBERS

(Press Release, "Fraternal Order Of Police Endorses Trump For President," National Fraternal Order Of Police, 9/4/20; Lisa Donovan, "Chicago Police Union Endorses President Trump's Reelection Bid," Chicago Tribune, 9/9/20; Press Release, "The Texas Municipal Police Association Endorses President Donald J. Trump for Re-Election," Texas Municipal Police Association, 9/3/20; Press Release, "Southern States Police Benevolent Association Endorses Donald Trump For President," Southern States Police Benevolent Association, 9/3/20; Press Release, "NTC Endorses President Donald J. Trump For Re-Election," National Troopers Coalition, 8/31/20; Press Release, "Council 82 Endorses Donald Trump For President," New York State Law Enforcement Officers Union, Council 82," 8/25/20; Carl Campanile, "New York State Troopers Union Boss Endorses Trump For Re-Election," New York Post, 8/23/20; "About NBPC," National Border Patrol Council, Accessed 9/6/20; Press Release, "Statewide Law Enforcement Unions Unite Against Anti-Cop Bills," Police Benevolent Association Of The City Of New York Incorporated; Uriel J. Garcia, "Arizona Police Group Will Meet With Mike Pence Tuesday," The Arizona Republic, [Phoenix, AZ], 8/11/20; Joshua Nelson, "Largest Florida Police Union Backs President Trump: 'Tired Of Being A Punching Bag,'" Fox News, 7/31/20; Press Release, "Police Officers Association Of Michigan Selects Chief Skotarczyk As The Statewide Police Chief Of The Year," Harper Woods Department of Public Safety, 4/27/10; NAPO, Twitter, 7/15/20; Press Release, "The International Union Of Police Associations Formally Endorses The Campaign For The Re-Election Of President Donald J. Trump," International Union of Police Associations, Accessed 9/6/20)
LAW ENFORCEMENT SAYS PRESIDENT TRUMP HAS THEIR BACK
The Fraternal Order Of Police Has Praised President Trump's "Crystal Clear" Support For Law Enforcement, Saying He Is Committed To "Keeping Our Communities And Families Safe." "'During his first four years, President Trump has made it crystal clear that he has our backs,' Yoes said. 'Our members know that he listens to the concerns of our brothers and sisters in uniform and is able to make tough decisions on the issues most important to law enforcement. President Trump is committed to keeping our communities and families safe.'" (Press Release, "Fraternal Order Of Police Endorses Trump For President," National Fraternal Order Of Police, 9/4/20)

FOP National President Patrick Yoes Explained The Union's "Unanimous" Endorsement, Saying That The Union Has "Worked Very Closely" With President Trump On Historic Accomplishments Such As The First Step Act. FOX NEWS' NEIL CAVUTO: "Patrick Yoes is the Fraternal Order of Police, he's the National President, so he's the big chief. So we're honored to have him. And he made news by backing, again this is the nation's largest police union, Donald Trump. They've not often done that sort of thing, but they did. Patrick is here to tell us why he did. Very good to have you, sir. Why did you throw your support behind the president?" PATRICK YOES: "Thank you for having me. Yeah, we've worked very closely with President Trump over the last four years on many initiatives. One of them was the First Step Act, which is the largest police reform act that has happened in recent time. And we were very proud to be the only labor organization that stood and recognized that we want to find ways to improve and better the criminal justice system. We also worked with the President closely on his executive order and also with Congress, in both the House and Senate, hoping that we could find some ways to improve, have fact-based discussions and improve the quality of law enforcement. Unfortunately, we know what's happening in Congress and we're kind of at a stalemate there. And the President's executive order is really the only police reform that has come out of all of this. Our members are also members of our communities as well, we have concerns, but we also have, I think interesting for us, unlike other organizations, we have a process where our members are actually part of the decision in making our endorsement. It's what happened yesterday. We completed our process with polling our members across the country and each one of the states where we exist and had a unanimous support to endorse President Trump for a second term." (Fox News' "Cavuto Live," 9/5/20)


Click To Watch
Chicago Fraternal Order Of Police (FOP Lodge No. 7) President John Catanzara Said He Will Do Anything He Can To Support President Trump. "Chicago's police union, like its umbrella organization the national Fraternal Order of Police, has endorsed Republican President Donald Trump's reelection bid, potentially helping to boost his pro-cop, law-and-order message... Catanzara was among those who attended Trump's controversial speech on the White House lawn where he accepted the GOP's nomination for a second term, which punctuated the four-day Republican National Convention. And the FOP boss said that he'd gladly stump for the president in Chicago. 'I will do whatever I can for him — clearly,' Catanzara told the Tribune. 'I hope he makes a somewhat local appearance — that he doesn't think Illinois is a lost cause and will just kind of mail it in.'" (Lisa Donovan, "Chicago Police Union Endorses President Trump's Reelection Bid," Chicago Tribune, 9/9/20)

FOP Lodge No. 7 President John Catanzara Praised President Trump For Calling Out Violent Protests Across The Country, Saying Democrats Can't Challenge The President's Message. JOHN CATANZARA: "Well, yeah, there's a lot of talk about it because it's a simple fact, if you look at where the majority of these violent protests/riots, anarchy, mob rule are happening, they are Democratic-run cities. I know the Mayor doesn't like that— have that point it out but it is just the reality of the situation, and kudos to the President for continuing to point it out. They just don't like the messenger, but they can't challenge the message."(WGN 9's "WGN News," 8/28/20)


Click To Watch
The National Association Of Police Organizations (NAPO) President Michael McHale Praised The Trump Administration For "Aggressively" Going After Those Who Attack Police Officers. "The National Association of Police Organizations (NAPO) endorsed President Trump's reelection Wednesday, praising his 'steadfast and very public support' for law enforcement. NAPO did not endorse a candidate in the 2016 election but endorsed former President Barack Obama and then-Vice President Joe Biden in both the 2008 and 2012 elections. NAPO President Michael McHale said Trump's support is needed 'during this time of unfair and inaccurate opprobrium being directed at our members by so many.' 'We particularly value your directing the Attorney General to aggressively prosecute those who attack our officers,' McHale wrote in a letter." (Morgan Phillips, "National Association Of Police Organizations Endorses Trump, After Backing Biden As VP In '08, '12," Fox News, 7/15/20)

NAPO Recognized President Trump's "Steadfast And Very Public Support" For Law Enforcement And Attributed Their Endorsement To President Trump's "Law Enforcement Mental Health And Wellness Act," Which Permanently Authorized Funds To Families And Victims Of 9/11. (NAPO, Twitter, 7/15/20)
NAPO President Michael McHale Said President Trump Is Needed "During This Time Of Unfair And Inaccurate" Anti-Police Narratives. "NAPO did not endorse a candidate in the 2016 election but endorsed former President Barack Obama and then-Vice President Joe Biden in both the 2008 and 2012 elections. NAPO President Michael McHale said Trump's support is needed 'during this time of unfair and inaccurate opprobrium being directed at our members by so many.' 'We particularly value your directing the Attorney General to aggressively prosecute those who attack our officers,' McHale wrote in a letter." (Morgan Phillips, "National Association of Police Organizations Endorses Trump, After Backing Biden As VP In '08, '12," Fox News, 7/15/20)

The International Union Of Police Associations (IUPA) Has Said The Trump Administration Has Done More For Law Enforcement In Two And A Half Years Than The Obama-Biden Administration Did In Eight Years. "President Trump has done more for Law Enforcement in the past two and a half years than was accomplished in the eight years that preceded his election. He has even undone some of the harmful acts of his predecessor." (Press Release, "The International Union Of Police Associations Formally Endorses The Campaign For The Re-Election Of President Donald J. Trump," International Union Of Police Associations, 9/10/19)

The Association Attributed Their Endorsement To President Trump's Support Of The 1033 Program And To The $100 Million Provided To Help Communities Hire More Law Enforcement. (Press Release, "The International Union Of Police Associations Formally Endorses The Campaign For The Re-Election Of President Donald J. Trump," International Union Of Police Associations, 9/10/19)

The Southern States Police Benevolent Association (SSPBA) Has Called President Trump "The True Law Enforcement" Candidate. "Southern States Police Benevolent Association, Inc. (SSPBA) announced today that it is endorsing Donald Trump for President in the 2020 election. SSPBA board members and representatives met with Vice President Mike Pence in Raleigh today to announce the endorsement. SSPBA is composed of over 60,000 law enforcement officer members throughout the Southeast. 'With the stakes as high as they are for the law enforcement profession today, we felt that we must speak up in support of the true law enforcement candidates,' said Chris Skinner, SSPBA president. 'President Trump has been unwavering in his support of law enforcement,' President Skinner continued." (Press Release, "Southern States Police Benevolent Association Endorses Donald Trump For President," Southern States Police Benevolent Association, 9/3/20)

SSPBA's Endorsement Of President Trump Was The First Time The Union Endorsed A Presidential Candidate In Over 20 Years. "SSPBA board members and representatives met with Vice President Mike Pence in Raleigh today to announce the endorsement. SSPBA is composed of over 60,000 law enforcement officer members throughout the Southeast. This is the association's first presidential endorsement in over twenty years." (Press Release, "Southern States Police Benevolent Association Endorses Donald Trump For President," Southern States Police Benevolent Association, 9/3/20)
SSPBA President Chris Skinner Praised President Trump For Pushing Back Against Those Who Are Attacking Law Enforcement Officers. CHRIS SKINNER: "My name is Chris Skinner. I'm here today on behalf of 60,000 active or retired law enforcement or correctional officers that we represent throughout the Southeast of the United States. Today, we are proud and honored to announce our endorsement of Donald Trump and Vice President Michael Pence. In times when many are attacking the law enforcement profession, it is important that officers know that they are not on their own when they're out there. President Trump and Vice President Pence have demonstrated time, and time again, that they understand and appreciate the sacrifice and honor it is to serve as a law enforcement officer. We are convinced they recognize that law enforcement officers are vital to the strength and stability of our communities. We are grateful for their steadfast commitment to uphold law & order. We will support them because we know that they gonna continue to support us. With that, I would like to introduce Vice President Michael Pence." (Chris Skinner, Remarks At Southern States Police Benevolent Association Endorsement Event Of President Trump, [Raleigh, NC], 9/3/20)


Click To Watch
The National Troopers Coalition (NTC) Has Said President Trump's "Strong And Unique Leadership" Is Needed To Ensure The Safety Of Law Enforcement And Communities Across The Country. "This letter is to officially announce our endorsement for your re-election as President of the United States. During these uncertain times, your strong and unique leadership is necessary to ensure the safety of law enforcement and the communities we serve throughout the United States. We are grateful for your continued support for law and order and your unwavering stance against those who attack the very men and women that are willing to give their lives to protect others. It is that support which has resonated with our membership." (Press Release, "NTC Endorses President Donald J. Trump For Re-Election," National Troopers Coalition, 8/31/20)

NTC Praised President Trump's "Unwavering Stance" Against Those Who Continue To Attack Law Enforcement Officers. (Press Release, "NTC Endorses President Donald J. Trump For Re-Election," National Troopers Coalition, 8/31/20)

The Texas Municipal Police Association (TMPA) Has Praised President Trump For "Consistently" Pushing Back Against Anti-Police Narratives, Equipping Police Departments, And Never Second-Guessing The Men And Women In Blue. "The President has consistently pushed back against the false narratives being promulgated against our law enforcement officers. He has never been quick to second guess police procedures and has worked hard with the Department of Justice to ensure investigations are fair and non-partisan." (Press Release, "The Texas Municipal Police Association Endorses President Donald J. Trump for Re-Election," Texas Municipal Police Association, 9/3/20)
The Florida Police Benevolent Association (Florida PBA) Has Said President Trump Has "Never Once Wavered From His Support Of Law Enforcement Officers." "In order to maintain our fundamental right to live in a society that is both free and safe, Americans need to elect the one candidate for president who is committed to making our country safe and secure. For the 30,000 men and women in the Florida Police Benevolent Association, the choice for us could not be clearer. President Donald J. Trump has never once wavered from his support of law enforcement officers, especially as we are faced with these unprecedented challenges. President Trump's commitment to preserving law and order in America is our country's last great hope to live in the kind of society where our communities thrive and our families prosper." (John Kazanjian, Op-Ed, "Florida's Largest Police Union: Re-Elect President Donald Trump To Keep America Safe," Sun Sentinel [Fort Lauderdale, FL], 7/31/20)

The Florida PBA Had Not Made An Endorsement In 8 Years, Breaking Tradition To Praise President Trump's Unwavering Support For Police Officers And Calling His Commitment To Law And Order The "Last Great Hope." "President Trump's commitment to preserving law and order in America is our country's last great hope to live in the kind of society where our communities thrive, and our families prosper. The Florida PBA has not made an endorsement for President of the United States in eight years. But with the existential threats to the safety of our members, the future of our families, and the security of our communities, we cannot afford to sit on the sidelines. And neither can our fellow Americans. Let's keep America safe, re-elect President Donald J. Trump." (John Kazanjian, Op-Ed, "Florida's Largest Police Union: Re-Elect President Donald Trump To Keep America Safe," Sun Sentinel [Fort Lauderdale, FL], 7/31/20)

NYC Police Benevolent Association (NYC PBA) President Patrick Lynch Praised President Trump's Commitment To Law Enforcement, Saying The President "Earned" His Union's Endorsement. PATRICK LYNCH: "I have 36 years on this job, 21 as the president of this fine organization. I cannot remember when we've ever endorsed for the office of President of the United States until now. That's how important this is. Mr. President— Mr. President, we're fighting for our lives out there. We don't want this to spread to the rest of the country. We need your strong voice across the country to say we have to support law enforcement across this country. Now many times people say that a union like ours, law enforcement groups give endorsements, not in the New York City PBA, sir. In the New York City PBA, Mr. president, you earned the endorsement and you've earned this endorsement I'm proud to give it." (Patrick Lynch, Remarks At Endorsement Ceremony For President Trump, [Bedminster, NJ], 8/14/20)

Click To Watch
The National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) Has Highlighted President Trump's Commitment To Border Security. "On Tuesday, President Donald Trump and his supporters braved the excessive desert heat during his trip to Yuma to pick up the endorsement of the National Border Patrol Council. It was the President's fourth trip to Arizona this year and the union's second endorsement of Trump. The President touted his administration's efforts to enhance border security and improve trade deals." ("Trump Visits Yuma, Picks Up Endorsement Of National Border Patrol Council," Arizona Daily Independent, 8/18/20)
The Arizona Police Association (APA) President Justin Harris Praised President Trump's Commitment To Keeping Communities Safe, Calling Him The Clear "Law And Order Candidate." "Justin Harris, the president of the Arizona Police Association, spoke about the organization's endorsement of the Trump campaign, arguing that a 'horrendous spike in violent crimes' had come because of 'foolish talk' about defunding police departments. Although based in Arizona, Harris focused his ire on incidents in Chicago, Seattle and New York, decrying calls to 'abolish the police or calls to defund the police. Law enforcement is under attack,' Harris said. 'Look no further than places like Seattle, New York, Chicago Los Angeles,' Harris said, adding that in Seattle, city officials proposed a 50 percent cut in the Seattle Police Department's budget, and a $1 billion cut to New York's police. 'It is clear who the law and order candidate for president is: President Donald J Trump,' Harris said. 'These liberal socialist elected officials have essentially told their constituents that law and order important is no longer a priority.' 'The inmates are running the asylum,' Harris said." (Paul Ingram, "Pence Calls Biden A Choice For 'Radical Left' In Tucson Visit," Tucson Sentinel, 8/13/20)
The Police Officers Association Of Michigan (POAM) Has Said President Trump "Supports The Police While The Previous Administration Preferred To Insult Them Or Find Them Guilty Without Due Process." "The Police Officers Association of Michigan endorsed President Donald Trump's re-election in a statement Thursday as a debate over law enforcement strategies plays out on the national stage. 'President Trump never fails to recognize our homeland's security personnel at home and abroad,' said the labor organization's president, James Tignanelli, in a statement. 'He supports the police while the previous administration preferred to insult them or to find them guilty without due process.' The statement added, 'At a time when civic leaders are choosing to tolerate televised felonies because a group of people are 'offended,' we need real leadership.'" (Craig Mauger, "Police Officers Association Of Michigan Endorses Trump," The Detroit News, 7/13/20)
New York State Troopers Police Benevolent Association (NYST PBA) President Thomas Mungeer: "Donald Trump Has Our Back. President Trump Has Supported Us When So Many People Have Turned Against Us." "'Donald Trump has our back. President Trump has supported us when so many people have turned against us,' NYS Troopers PBA president Thomas Mungeer told the Post on the eve of the Republican National Convention." (Carl Campanile, "New York State Troopers Union Boss Endorses Trump For Re-Election," New York Post, 8/23/20)

The NYST PBA Praised President Trump's Support For Law Enforcement Amid Growing Anti-Police Sentiment In The Democratic Party. (Carl Campanile, "New York State Troopers Union Boss Endorses Trump For Re-Election," New York Post, 8/23/20)

The New York State Law Enforcement Officers Union, Council 82 (Council 82) Has Applauded President Trump's "Strong And Unwavering Support For Law Enforcement." "The New York State Law Enforcement Officers Union, Council 82, AFSCME, AFL-CIO (Council 82) endorses Donald J. Trump in his campaign for re-election as President fo the United States. In a letter to President Trump dated August 25, 2020, Council 82 recognized President Trump's strong and unwavering support for law enforcement officers, his accomplishments and achievements in his first term, and his commitment to law and order and the rule of law. We're honored to endorse President Trump. He is proud to stand with us, and we're proud to stand with him. He is 100% committed to providing law enforcement with the resources and backing to ensure our safety and the safety of all our citizens." ("New York Law Enforcement Officers Union Endorses Donald Trump For President," ABC New York, 8/25/20)
LAW ENFORCEMENT HAS SAID BIDEN HAS ABANDONED THEM, STANDING WITH THE RADICALS WHO CALL FOR ABOLISHING AND DEFUNDING POLICE
National Association Of Police Organizations (NAPO) President Michael McHale Criticized Biden For Turning His Candidacy Over "To The Far Left," Anti-Police "Radicals." MICHAEL MCHALE: "The violence and bloodshed we are seeing in these and other cities isn't happening by chance. It's the direct result of refusing to allow law enforcement to protect our communities. Joe Biden has turned his candidacy over to the far left, anti-law enforcement radicals, and as a senator, Kamala Harris pushed to further restrict police, cut their training, and make our American communities and streets even more dangerous than they already are. Conversely, President Trump supports the creation of a national standard for training on de-escalation and communication to give officers more tools to resolve conflict without violence. The differences between Trump-Pence and Biden-Harris are crystal clear. Your choices are the most pro-law enforcement President we've ever had or the most radical anti-police ticket in history. We invite those who value the safety of their family and loved ones to join the hundreds of thousands of members of the National Association of Police Organizations and support the re-election of President Donald J. Trump. Thank you and God bless America." (Michael McHale, Remarks At The RNC Presidential Convention, [Washington, DC], 8/26/20)

Click To Watch
The Texas Municipal Police Association (TMPA) Criticized Biden For Surrounding Himself With "The Loudest Voices Calling For Defunding Police Across The United States." "Most importantly, President Trump has committed to providing law enforcement with the equipment, personnel, and training that we need to protect our communities across the state of Texas, and across the country. By comparison, Joe Biden is not capable of making any kind of commitment to law and order. Those he has surrounded himself with are the loudest voices calling for defunding police across the United States. Biden has made snap judgements about specific situations involving law enforcement without benefit of the facts, simply to score political points. We do not believe Biden has a coherent picture of the current state of law enforcement in Texas, or across America." (Press Release, "The Texas Municipal Police Association Endorses President Donald J. Trump for Re-Election," Texas Municipal Police Association, 9/3/20)
NYC Police Benevolent Association (NYC PBA) President Patrick Lynch: "You Won't Be Safe In Joe Biden's America." PATRICK LYNCH: "Unlike the Democrats who are running in fear of the mob in the street, President Trump has never apologized for supporting police officers and standing up for law and order. Unlike the Democrats who froze in the face of rioting and looting, President Trump matches his words with his actions. He gives law enforcement the support and the tools we need to go out there and put a stop to it, period, end of story. It's never been harder to be a police officer in this country, but there are two things that keep us going. We look at the victims, the vulnerable, the regular working people who count on us. We keep strapping on our duty belts and bullet resistant vests because we know we can't let them down. And while we do that, we hear the words of our president who says to police officers everywhere, 'I will never let you down.' We know that he hasn't, and we know that he won't. We've been fortunate to have him in office these past four years and we know that we cannot afford to lose him. When it comes to your safety, your family's safety, and the safety of all Americans, there's no other choice. You won't be safe in Joe Biden's America. We can have four more years of President Trump or you can have no safety, no justice, and no peace." (Patrick Lynch, Remarks At The RNC Presidential Convention, [Washington, DC], 8/27/20)

Click To Watch
The National Border Patrol Council (NBPC) President Brandon Judd Criticized Joe Biden For Failing To Protect The Border During His Tenure As Vice President, Calling The Biden-Harris Immigration Plan A "Recipe For Disaster." BRANDON JUDD: "Year in and year out, the American public has said that they want secured borders, it's always in the top five of the issues the candidates have to deal with and going into this election candidates are going to have to talk about that. Joe Biden has failed when he was the Vice President, he failed at that time, and if you look at the successes that President Trump has had on the border, you have to check that box and say he is the candidate that is going to do the most to secure our borders and secure our communities." FOX NEWS' JILLIAN MELE: "If you we go ahead and pull this graphic here that lays out the Biden-Harris immigration plan if they are to be elected. At the very top you can see: 'modernizing America's immigration system.' Brandon, what would that look like?" JUDD: "The first thing that you would have to say is, are they going to be willing to deport the individuals that are coming to the country illegally and the answer to that is no, they are not. They're going to put a moratorium on deportations for the first 100 days of his presidency. That's going to be a magnet that is going to invite people to cross the border illegally, to escape into our communities knowing that they're going to be safe once they get pass the border. That's a recipe for disaster and is going to put an awful lot of pressure on our border patrol agents." (FOX NEWS' "Fox & Friends First," 8/19/20)

Click To Watch
Arizona Police Association (APA) President Justice Justin Harris Called The Democrats' "Defund The Police" Movement "Irresponsible" And "Dangerous." JUSTIN HARRIS: "We all know this notion of abolish or defund the police is not just unrealistic, it's outright irresponsible and dangerous. It's not only dangerous for the police officers who serve in our communities every day but it's more importantly dangerous to the members in our community — the most vulnerable members in our community who can't defend themselves, they turn to the police, they trust us, they love us, and they need us, and we need them. Just look at the horrendous spike in violent crime just since this foolish talk started. It is clear who the law and order candidate for president is, President Donald J. Trump. Thank you. President Donald J. Trump has fought off the liberal media, he stood strong, and has had an unwavering support and commitment to the rule of law and to the men and women who place their lives every on the line every day to keep communities safe, we know he has our back, we have his back." (Justin Harris, Remarks At Cops For Trump Event, [Tucson, AZ], 8/11/20)

Click To Watch
New York State Troopers Police Benevolent Association (NYST PBA) President Thomas Mungeer: Joe Biden Has "Turned His Back On Us." "'Donald Trump has our back. President Trump has supported us when so many people have turned against us,' NYS Troopers PBA president Thomas Mungeer told the Post on the eve of the Republican National Convention. 'Joe Biden supported cops in the past but he's turned his back on us,' said Mungeer, referring to the former vice president and Democratic presidential nominee who is taking on Trump in the Nov. 3 general election." (Carl Campanile, "New York State Troopers Union Boss Endorses Trump For Re-Election," New York Post, 8/23/20)

Mungeer: "You're Seeing It More And More With Politicians, It's Advantageous To Stand By Police When The Times Were Good And When They're Not So Good, Let's Turn Against Them And We're Seeing It Across The Country And Unfortunately, Mr. Biden Has Followed Too." (FOX NEWS' "Fox & Friends," 6/5/20)


Click To Watch

Munger: Biden Has "Gone So Far Left That He's Practically Falling Off." (FOX NEWS' "Fox & Friends," 6/5/20)


Click To Watch
The New York State Law Enforcement Officers Union, Council 82 (Council 82) Condemned President Trump's "Opponents" For Turning Their Backs On Law Enforcement, Accusing Officers Of Being Racists, And Calling For The Defunding Or Dismantling Of Police Departments Across The Country. "His opponents, on the other hand, appear to hate our Country and have without a doubt turned their backs on law enforcement – accusing us of being racist, supporting those who would defund, dismantle, and abolish police departments, never condemning the anarchists, rioters, and looters who are burning down and destroying our cities and businesses and attacking our officers and our fellow citizens. His opponents, through hateful and reckless rhetoric, are encoursing unrest and violence and stoking division and chaos in this Country – all for political purposes, for our families, and for our Nation. Council 82 supports President Trump's re-election, and we pledge to support him every step of the way." (Press Release, "Council 82 Endorses Donald Trump For President," New York State Law Enforcement Officers Union, Council 82," 8/25/20)
  