
    Biden has hid from scrutiny and avoided real questions for far too long.

Your son Hunter Biden received a $3.5 million wire transfer from a Russian billionaire who was married to the former mayor of Moscow. He also had a joint bank account with a Chinese national that financed $100,000 in credit card purchases around the world. This all happened while you were Vice President. Why would people connected to the Russian and Chinese governments want to give your son millions of dollars?
You recently said you "got started" at Delaware State University, an HBCU. The school says they have no record of you ever attending. What did you major in there?
In June you said you were vetting your own potential Supreme Court picks and promised you would release your own list. Now you say you won't release a list. Why go back on your pledge?
Your running mate Kamala Harris said last year that she was open to adding as many as 4 seats to the Supreme Court. Now more leading Democrats are saying your party should pack the Supreme Court if they get the chance. Are you refusing to answer whether you will go along with this radical plan because you are too weak to stand up to it?
In January 2017, you said that Democrats should not block President Trump's nominees for the Supreme Court. You said you believe the Constitution "requires" the Senate "to give the nominee a hearing and a vote." In 2016 you said "would go forward with the confirmation process" of a Supreme Court nominee "even a few months before a presidential election ... just as the Constitution requires." Now you say the Constitution requires the exact opposite. How do you reconcile that change?
In 2008 you promised Americans that if they made less than $250,000 they would not pay a penny more in taxes. You broke that promise and imposed new taxes that directly impacted middle-class Americans. Now you're claiming you won't raise taxes on anyone making more than 400,000. Why should voters believe you now, especially since you've said you will reinstate the individual mandate tax?
As Vice President, you oversaw the weakest economic recovery since the Great Depression. What would you do differently if you were elected?
Your plan would raise the U.S. business tax rate higher than China's rate. Won't that make it more expensive for companies to do business in America and ultimately send jobs overseas?
President Trump imposed restrictions on travel from China on January 31 to combat the spread of the coronavirus. Why did it take you two months to say you supported that decision?
In 2008 you and Barack Obama promised to fully fund the federal COPS program, which provides resources to local law enforcement. But funding for this program was cut while you were vice president, despite your promise. Why did you fail to keep your word?
Earlier this year your campaign staff donated money to the Minnesota Freedom Fund, an organization that bailed out of a jail a rioter who shot at police officers and other violent criminals and sexual predators. Your running mate Kamala Harris also urged people to donate to that organization and is still raising money for it. Do you condone that?
You say if you're elected you'll push to give citizenship to the 11 million undocumented people in our country. Why do you believe they should receive Medicare and Social Security benefits?
When you were running for president in 2007, both you and Obama pledged to renegotiate NAFTA, a promise you did not keep when you were in office. You recently blamed Republicans for this, saying they wouldn't go along with it, but Democrats controlled Congress in 2009 when the Obama Administration announced it would not even try to change NAFTA. So why did you fail to keep your word?
When you voted to give China "most favored nation" trade status in 2000, you said you did not foresee "the collapse of the American manufacturing economy" because of it. But by one estimate, it led to the loss of 1 million manufacturing jobs in the U.S. Do you acknowledge that your vote to give China most favored nation trade status was a mistake that hurt American workers?
The 2009 H1N1 swine flu pandemic infected 60 million Americans when you were VP, and the federal government depleted its strategic stockpile of N95 masks in response. A fact check by USA Today found that your administration made no effort to replenish the stockpile of masks, despite warnings from experts. Do you accept responsibility for that failure, which left America unprepared for another pandemic?
Your campaign says it is a "lie" that "the Biden-Harris ticket is the most radically pro-abortion" ticket "in U.S. history." Are there any restrictions on abortion that you support, and if so, please be specific?
You said the N-word 13 times during a 1985 Senate nomination fight, when you were quoting something attributed to someone else. Do you think that was appropriate to do? Is that the only time you've said the N-word?

  