
    "I think he's ready. He's a pro. And he will be a viable candidate." (Bill Kristol, founder and editor of the Weekly Standard and Fox News Contributor, Fox Network's "Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace," 9/2/07)
"Fred Thompson is the check box for the undecideds in the Republican presidential campaign, which is a really good place to be with so many dissatisfied Republicans right now." (Nina Easton, Washington Bureau Chief for Fortune Magazine and Fox News Contributor, Fox Network's "Fox News Sunday with Chris Wallace," 9/2/07)
"There's so much uncertainty and tumult. The calendar is all scrambled, that maybe if there is so much chaos Fred Thompson could be the guy that picks up all the pieces." (Ed Henry, CNN's "Late Edition with Wolf Blitzer," 9/2/07)
"I think Fred can get in this late...they now have professionals. They're going to do the announcement tour right away. They're going to the right places. If Fred is on his game, if Fred is on message ...and has a strong message, he's got the platform to get right in this race." (Mike Murphy, Republican Strategist, NBC's "Meet The Press," 9/2/07)
"It's no wonder other candidates and their oppo-research teams are so eager to marginalize Thompson: Mitt Romney or Rudy Giuliani would surrender vital organs to be compared with [President Ronald Reagan] the patron saint of the Republican Party." (Holly Bailey, "Is Fred Thompson Presidential Material," Newsweek, 9/2/07)
"I think actually the Republicans are not satisfied with any of their front-runners. They are eager to have a new face." (Robert Reich, former Secretary of Labor and political commentator, ABC's "This Week with George Stephanopoulos," 9/2/07)
"He has a superior rationale, a superior message, and he has the stature and skills to be able to communicate....the principles on which Fred believes and forms his policy are heartland. They're first principles. And he connects better with the heartland. But the main superior rationale is he'll be better in the general election. He's better than any of these guys against Hillary. He's not afraid of Hillary. He's a better politician than her, and he'll get more blue states." (Mary Matalin, Republican Strategist, NBC's "Meet The Press," 9/2/07)
  