
    Following widely-praised New Hampshire convention speech, Booker expands endorsements lead in the Granite State
Booker now has 81 New Hampshire endorsements-- more than any other 2020 candidate
Manchester, NH—Four-term New Hampshire State Representative and leading New Hampshire environmental activist Bob Backus (Manchester) today announced his endorsement of Cory Booker for president, making him the latest state elected official to back Booker in the 2020 primary and expanding Booker's total Granite State endorsements to 81--more than any other 2020 candidate. The announcement comes after Cory Booker delivered a rousing speech that received rave reviews from engaged New Hampshire voters at the state convention on Saturday. Watch the speech here.
"After watching Cory Booker bring New Hampshire activists and delegates to our feet on Saturday, I'm convinced he is uniquely capable of inspiring a broad coalition of Americans to vote in the 2020 general election and beat Donald Trump," said State Rep. Bob Backus. "While Cory has proposed specific solutions on the most pressing policy issues, such as his plan to combat climate change that focuses on the environmental justice challenges we face in New Hampshire, he connects with people's hearts and will heal our country after these damaging last few years. I'm proud to endorse Cory Booker and work to get him elected so we can build a country that provides justice and opportunity for everyone."
Booker now leads the field with 81 total endorsements in New Hampshire, from two state senators, 12 state representatives, the longest-serving mayor in New Hampshire, and dozens of key activists and community leaders. Elected officials, activists and community leaders who have previously endorsed Booker are:

Sen. Jon Morgan (Brentwood)
Sen. David Watters (Dover)
Concord Mayor Jim Bouley
Rep. Anita Burroughs (Bartlett)
Rep. Peter Leishman (Peterborough)
Rep. Linn Opderbecke (Dover)
Rep. Lee Walker Oxenham (Plainfield)
Rep. Katherine Rogers (Concord)
Rep. Jeffrey Salloway (Lee)
Rep. Bruce Tatro (Swanzey)
Rep. Don Bouchard (Manchester)
Rep. Patricia Klee (Nashua)
Rep. Kate Murray (New Castle)
Rep. Cecilia Rich (Somersworth)
Concord Activist Jim Demers; and
An additional 41 New Hampshire activists, delegates and community leaders, announced in July.
An additional 24 New Hampshire activists, delegates and community leaders, announced on September 6. 

  