
    I WELCOME this opportunity to speak, through Chairman Seaborg, to the delegates to the Ninth General Conference of the IAEA. I believe it is significant that you are meeting this year in Tokyo, the capital of a nation whose people have made such remarkable progress through the peaceful development of science and technology.
Today we realize, more than ever before, the power of science. We also realize that the mighty force of science is not the domain of any one nation. Its great knowledge springs from sources in many lands. Its fullest development demands international responsibility and the cooperation of all men. This is the reason for the existence of the International Atomic Energy Agency. You are directing the atom, the greatest source of power which man has ever wrested from nature, towards peace, towards the fulfillment of human need.
Since its inception in 1957, the IAEA has made noteworthy progress. In organizing and implementing international programs of scientific and technological cooperation, it has shown the world that men gain far more by sharing their knowledge and tools than by using them alone in secrecy and isolation. The IAEA has offered the advanced countries and their lesser developed neighbors and friends opportunities to work together and to share the scientific developments of many nations.
But the IAEA also has the solemn duty-and the unique opportunity--to assure the world that materials and equipment employed for peaceful uses of atomic energy are not used for any military purpose. Prevention of the spread of atomic weapons is one of the most important tasks of our times. It is my deep conviction that the IAEA, through its safeguards system, can make a crucial contribution to achievement of this goal. The United States Government is pledged to do all in its power to assure the success of the Agency's system. I urge every member state to give its support to the Agency system in principle and in practice.
There must be no resting. The work which you have been doing must be carried on with increasing effort and support. There is no standing still in your twofold task of keeping the peaceful atom peaceful and directing its enormous energy toward productive uses.
I take this opportunity to renew my country's pledge to assist the International Atomic Energy Agency in the full pursuit of those benefits which the peaceful atom can bestow.
With gratitude for your past accomplishments, I send you the best wishes of the people of the United States for your future endeavors.
  