
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Tropical Depression Ivan beginning on September 17, 2004, and continuing.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in the counties of Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Centre, Clearfield, Cumberland, Dauphhin, Indiana, Lackawanna, Luzerne, Lycoming, Northampton, Perry, Schuylkill, Susquehanna, Washington, Westmoreland, and Wyoming.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available on a cost share basis to State and eligible local governments in the counties of Allegheny, Armstrong, Beaver, Butler, Centre, Clearfield, Cumberland, Dauphhin, Indiana, Lackawanna, Luzerne, Lycoming, Northampton, Perry, Schuylkill, Susquehanna, Washington, Westmoreland, and Wyoming for debris removal and emergency protective measures.
Federal funding is also available on a cost-share basis for hazard mitigation measures statewide.
Representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Michael D. Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, Department of Homeland Security, named Thomas Davies as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
The Agency said that damage surveys are continuing in other areas, and more counties and additional forms of assistance may be designated after the assessments are completed.
The Agency said that residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated counties can begin applying for assistance by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362), or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers 24 hours a day, seven days a week until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  