
    "Yesterday, President Obama said the most important lesson he's learned is that 'you can't change Washington from the inside.' The candidate of 'yes we can' has become the president of 'no I can't.' Four years after promising Virginians real change, Barack Obama hasn't changed Washington, fixed the economy, or lived up to the promises he made. Americans are ready for a new direction, and Mitt Romney will get our country back on the right track." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Yesterday, President Obama Claimed He Learned He Couldn't "Change Washington From The Inside":
President Obama: "The Most Important Lesson I've Learned Is That You Can't Change Washington From The Inside. You Can Only Change It From The Outside." OBAMA: "And you know, I think that I've learned some lessons over the last four years. And the most important lesson I've learned is that you can't change Washington from the inside. You can only change it from the outside." (President Barack Obama, Remarks At Univision Forum, 9/20/12)
Today, President Obama Is In Virginia — Where He Held His Last Rally From 2008 And Promised To Deliver Change For America And The World:
Today, President Will Hold A Campaign Event In Virginia. "President Obama is still coming to Prince William County Friday, but he'll be in Woodbridge, not Manassas. The president's campaign announced last week that he would appear in Manassas, but the location has shifted has shifted to Woodbridge, the campaign said Monday." (Laura Vozzella, "Obama To Campaign In Woodbridge Friday," The Washington Post, 9/17/12)
In November 2008, Candidate Obama Promised Virginians "One Voice" Can Deliver Change To "A Room," "A City," "A State," "A Nation" And "The World." OBAMA: "Here's my point, Virginia: That's how this thing was started. It shows you what one voice can do! One voice can change a room! And if a voice can change a room, it can change a city! And if it can change a city, it can change a state! And if it can change a state, it can change a nation! And if it can change a nation, it can change the world!" (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Manassas, VA, 11/3/08)

Candidate Obama: "We Are Less Than One Day Away From Bringing About Change In America!" OBAMA: "After decades of broken politics in Washington; eight years of failed policies from George Bush; 21 months of campaigning, we are less than one day away from bringing about change in America!" (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Manassas, VA, 11/3/08)


Candidate Obama: "It is Time For Change! And That's Why I'm Running For President Of The United States Of America!" OBAMA: "These are the economic theories that got us into this mess. They have not worked. It is time for change! And that's why I'm running for president of the United States of America! And that's what we're going to bring tomorrow!" (Senator Barack Obama, Remarks, Manassas, VA, 11/3/08)


Click Here To View

And What Has President Obama Delivered? "More Of The Same" And A Washington That Is More Divided Than Ever:
President Obama Admits Washington Is Stuck With "More Of The Same," And "Maybe A Little Worse." CNN's WOLF BLITZER: "When we spoke here end of 2008, 'hope and change.' You know what I see in Washington still to this day? OBAMA: "More of the same." BLITZER: "The same old same old." OBAMA: "Yeah." BLITZER: "A lot of bickering, backstabbing." OBAMA: "Maybe a little worse." (CNN's "The Situation Room," 8/16/11)
"The Hard Truth Is That Washington Next Year Will Look Indistinguishable From The One Obama Warned Against During His Election-Night Victory Speech..." "The hard truth is that Washington next year will look indistinguishable from the one Obama warned against during his election-night victory speech, when he called on Republicans and Democrats to 'resist the temptation to fall back on the same partisanship and pettiness and immaturity that has poisoned our politics for so long.'" (Carrie Budoff Brown and Jonathan Allen, "Partisan D.C.: Obama's Broken Promise," Politico, 1/17/12)
The Washington Post's Dana Milbank: "The President Came Here To Change Washington And Washington Has Changed Him." (CNN's "Anderson Cooper 360," 3/8/12)
President Obama Has Been "Unable To Bridge A Political Divide That Had Only Grown Wider Since He Took Office With A Promise To Change The Ways Of Washington." "A president who promised to bring the country together, who confidently presented himself as the transformational figure able to make that happen, now had his chance. But, like earlier policy battles, the debt ceiling negotiations revealed a divided figure, a man who remained aloof from a Congress where he once served and that he now needed. He was caught between his own aspirations for historical significance and his inherent political caution. And he was unable to bridge a political divide that had only grown wider since he took office with a promise to change the ways of Washington, underscoring the gulf between the way he campaigned and the way he had governed." (Peter Wallsten, Lori Montgomery, and Scott Wilson, "Obama's Evolution: Behind The Failed 'Grand Bargain' On The Debt," The Washington Post, 3/17/12)
  