
    
"My opponent is against the expansion of nuclear power. His running mate here in Ohio recently said that they weren't supporting clean coal either. And the fact is that their billions of dollars in higher taxes would kill jobs here in Ohio. That's not what Ohio needs and that's not what America needs." -- John McCain
John McCain
Remarks
Strongsville, OH
John McCain: "I know that a lot of eyes have been on Wall Street and Washington for the past week as we all process the credit crisis that has hit our economy in such a devastating fashion. But I want the people in Ohio here to know that I've not forgotten the economy on Main Street. Not Wall Street, not Washington D.C., but Main Street is the focus of our attention, our efforts.
"And I am going to put in place the priorities and policies that will create jobs in Ohio. And one important way that we're going to create jobs here is with the development of additional nuclear power plants and through investments in clean coal technology. We will invest as much as $2 billion a year to develop clean coal technology. America sits on the world's largest coal reserves, and we have to use it and clean coal technology is the best way. Not only will investment in our energy infrastructure create millions of new jobs across the country, it will help lead our nation toward the absolutely vital goal of energy independence.
"My opponent is against the expansion of nuclear power. His running mate here in Ohio recently said that they weren't supporting clean coal either. And the fact is that their billions of dollars in higher taxes would kill jobs here in Ohio. That's not what Ohio needs and that's not what America needs. My economic focus throughout this campaign has always been pro-growth policies that will create jobs. I share that focus with Pat Sink and the Operating Engineers Local 18, which represents thousands of workers here in Ohio. I am honored and happy to accept their endorsement. Thank you." 
 Watch John McCain  
Last Week, Joe Biden Said "We're Not Supporting 'Clean Coal ... No Coal Plants Here In America" 
Last Week In Ohio, Biden Said That He Didn't Support Clean Coal And Said "No Coal Plants Here In America." PERSON: "Senator, Senator, wind and solar are flourishing here in Ohio, so why are you supporting clean coal?" BIDEN: "Say ... I didn't hear what you said." PERSON: "Wind and solar are flourishing here in Ohio, so why are you supporting clean coal?" BIDEN: "We're not supporting 'clean coal.' Guess what. China's building two every week. Two dirty coal plants. And it's polluting the United States. It's causing people to die." PERSON: "So will you support wind and solar?" BIDEN: "Absolutely. Before anybody did. The first guy to introduce a global warming bill was me, 22 years ago. The first guy to support solar energy was me, 26 years ago. It came out of Delaware. But guess what. China is gonna burn three hundred years of bad coal unless we figure out how to clean their coal up. Because it's going to ruin your lungs and there's nothing we can do about it. No coal plants here in America. Build them, if they're going to build them over there make 'em clean because they're killing you." (Joe Biden, Remarks, Maumee, OH, 9/17/08) 
Watch Biden Say "No Coal Plants Here In America" Here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7rXyTRT-NZg 
Biden Doesn't "Think There's Much Of A Role For Clean Coal In Energy Independence ... Clean-Coal Technology Is Not The Route To Go In The United States ..." BIDEN: "I don't think there's much of a role for clean coal in energy independence, but I do think there's a significant role for clean coal in the bigger picture of climate change. Clean-coal technology is not the route to go in the United States, because we have other, cleaner alternatives." (Amanda Griscom Little, "Biden On The Record," Grist, www.grist.org , 8/29/07)
  