
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eight individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Gigi Hyland, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Credit Union Administration Board, for a six-year term expiring August 2, 2011. Ms. Hyland is currently Senior Vice President and General Counsel for Empire Corporate Federal Credit Union. She previously served as Vice President of the Credit Union National Association, Inc. and Executive Director for the Association of Corporate Credit Unions. Ms. Hyland received her bachelor's degree from the College of William and Mary and her JD from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate J. Thomas Rosch, of California, to be a Commissioner of the Federal Trade Commission, for the remainder of a seven-year term expiring September 5, 2012. Mr. Rosch is currently a Partner at Latham and Watkins, LLP. Prior to this, he was a Partner at McCutchen, Doyle, Brown & Enerson, LLP, where he practiced antitrust and trade regulation law. Earlier in his career, Mr. Rosch served as Director of the Federal Trade Commission's Bureau of Consumer Protection. Mr. Rosch received his bachelor's degree and LLB from Harvard University.
The President intends to nominate Terrence L. Bracy, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring October 6, 2010.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on the Humanities:

  Jean B. Elshtain, of Tennessee, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 26, 2010
Allen C. Guelzo, of Pennsylvania, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 26, 2006 and an additional term expiring January 26, 2012
Eugene Hickok, of Pennsylvania, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring January 26, 2006 and an additional term expiring January 26, 2012

The President intends to nominate Sarah M. Singleton, of New Mexico, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring July 13, 2008.
The President intends to nominate Margaret Spellings, of Texas, to be a Representative of the United States to the 33rd General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization.
  