
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICYThis Statement Has Been Coordinated by OMB with the Appropriate Agencies
(House)(Young (R) AK and 27 cosponsors)
If H.R. 3752 were presented to the President, the Department of the Interior would recommend that the bill be vetoed.
The Administration strongly opposes H.R. 3752, which would impose unnecessary restrictions on the existing legal and administrative framework that implements U.S. commitments to international environmental cooperative efforts. This bill could significantly reduce U.S. leadership and influence in global conservation and is counter to the U.S. role in global environmental cooperation.
H.R. 3752 is based upon the faulty premise that the World Heritage Convention, the Biosphere Reserve Program, and other international conservation agreements threaten the United States' sovereignty over its lands. There are several reasons why these agreements do not encroach upon U.S. sovereignty:

— International agreements, such as the World Heritage Convention, and programs, such as the U.S. Man in the Biosphere Program, do not give the United Nations the authority to affect land management decisions within the United States and have in no way been utilized to exclude Congress from land management decisions, nor could they do so.
— The nomination processes for international conservation designations are consultative in a nature and based on demonstrated commitment at the local level.
— International site recognitions do not affect land use decisions by the local governments, tribes, or private property owners, and are subject to applicable domestic laws.
— International site recognitions do not impose restrictions on land use or stop economic growth. To the contrary, World Heritage sites and U.S. Biosphere Reserves have been embraced in many local areas as value-added designations, increasing partnership among Federal, State and local governments, and private property owners for mutual benefit and have contributed to an increase in international tourism, which is especially vital to rural economies.
  