
    New Ads Highlight How Donald Trump's Failures Hurt Real Americans and Joe Biden's Plans to Help Small Businesses Recover
Today, Biden for President is launching four new ads featuring small business owners in key battleground states struggling to survive under Donald Trump's failed leadership, and why they believe Joe Biden can turn this country for small businesses. The ads will run digitally and on TV in Arizona, North Carolina, and Pennsylvania.
"Left Behind" is a 0:30 digital ad, featuring Dina, a salon co-owner in Phoenix, Arizona. Dina speaks about her frustrations with big corporations getting millions of dollars in PPP loans under Trump, before small businesses like hers. Dina also shares why she trusts Joe Biden to lead small businesses through the COVID-19 crisis. "Left Behind" will air digitally in targeted Arizona markets.
Also launching today are two ads in North Carolina "Kimberly," a 0:60 digital spot which follows Kimberly, the founder of a soap company in Rocky Mount, North Carolina. When the pandemic hit, Kimberly shifted her operations to make hand sanitizer. In the ad, Kimberly expresses frustration with Trump prioritizing big corporations while she has to figure out how to pay bills and feed her family. Kimberly shares that she's not giving up, and that everyone should get behind Joe Biden's Build Back Better plan.
And in the other 0:60 spot in North Carolina that will air on TV and digital, "Celeste," where viewers hear from another Rocky Mount entrepreneur Celeste. Celeste shares the impact COVID-19 has had on her business' revenue because of the current administration's unclear policies to handle COVID-19 and why Joe Biden's past experience as a unifier and a listener is why he is the man to turn this country around.
The final ad launching is "Anthony J," a 0:30 spot featuring Anthony, a small business owner in Pittsburgh, PA whose business has been drastically impacted by COVID-19 and does not feel like President Trump sees him. He believes that Biden will make a great president because he has a plan. "Anthony J" launches digitally today, and will air on TV in Pennsylvania markets next week.
The campaign remains on television airwaves and digital platforms in a total of 13 states, including Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, Nevada, Ohio, Nebraska, and Minnesota.
  