
    Originally posted on CNN.com
By Peter Hamby
Newt Gingrich will stay at South Carolina Governor Nikki Haley's house during his visit to the state in early October. Topics of discussion during his stay will include the Federal budget and labor laws that are of particular relevance to the Palmetto state.

Washington (CNN) - Republican presidential candidate Newt Gingrich will overnight at the South Carolina governor's mansion next month during a campaign visit to early primary state, a spokesman for Gov. Nikki Haley said Monday.
Each of the Republican candidates are angling for Haley's endorsement, and Gingrich will be the second candidate to crash at the mansion after Minnesota Rep. Michele Bachmann, who has already stayed there twice this year.
Haley has invited all of the candidates to stay at the mansion as they pass through the Palmetto State hunting for votes.
Gingrich and Haley will certainly have much to talk about.
Haley publicly castigated the former House Speaker in May after he called the budget plan crafted by House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan "radical change" and "right-wing social engineering."
Haley told CNN at the time, "When you have a conservative fighting for real change, the last thing we need is a presidential candidate cutting him off at the knees."
But Gingrich, who has climbed in the polls after a series of debate performances, may have scored some points with the governor since the tumultuous early days of his campaign.
In July, Gingrich was the first GOP candidate to tour the Charleston area Boeing Dreamliner plant at the center of an ongoing dispute between the company and the National Labor Relations Board.
Haley has said the Obama administration's refusal to intervene in the case and allow the production facility to open is costing the state much-needed jobs.
Both Haley and Gingrich have accused Obama of coddling Democratic-friendly labor unions.
South Carolina, a so-called "right-to-work" state, has an unemployment rate of 10.9 percent.

  