
    Pool Reports by Alex Thompson, POLITICO 



Sent:
Reports:




September 3, 2021 10:03

In-town pool report 1
?Good morning. Fall is here.
Pool is assembled at the Palm Doors.
The president was scheduled to begin his remarks on the economy/jobs report at 10am.
It is now 10:02. 


September 3, 202110:20

In-town pool report 2
Pool has moved to the state dining room. Holding.


September 3, 202110:36

In-town pool report 3
2 minute warning


September 3, 202111:02

In town pool report 4
Biden took a question about abortion after his jobs remarks.
The pool is moving to the south lawn for POTUS departure.


September 3, 202111:25

In town pool report 5 
President Biden walked out of the White House and was reeled in by CBS's Ed o'keefe on a question about whether his home in Delaware was affected by the storm. He said no but the state was (not an exact quote. Audio was tough so waiting for TV audio. Will send exact quotes shortly when it's fed). Biden had a second question about an executive order on Saudi Arabia and 9/11. His answer was unclear. Will send exact quotes shortly.
POTUS Walked to Marine one, saluted, and got on board. Soon after, staff followed.
White House sends along the following list of ppl traveling with POTUS on Marine One:
Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President 


September 3, 202111:39

In town pool report 6 
Exact quotes from the exchange by Marine One, helpfully provided by Ed O'Keefe.
Q: Was your home in Delaware affected by the storm at all?
A: "No, but the state was affected. Brandywine overflowed and my home, to the best of my knowledge, I haven't been to that …"
Q: Are you signing some kind of executive order regarding Saudi Arabia and 9/11 anytime soon?
A: "I'll talk to you later."




Pool Reports by Noah Robertson, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




September 3, 2021 11:42 EDT

Travel Pool Report #1 | AF1 Departure
Off to a late start today. Marine 1 touched down at Joint Base Andrew's at 11:32 a.m.
POTUS exited in a blue suit, dotted tie, and mask. He paused after exiting the helicopter, put his hand on a marine's shoulder, and shook hands. A salute after exiting and a salute before boarding AF1. He waved to the pool but didn't respond to shouted questions, ascending the stairs alone.
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle with the pool aboard AF1 mid-flight. The audio will stream live at
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/.
It'll be a busy day on the ground in Louisiana. I'll update you as we follow along, and send out notes of the president's comments with Otter links against which to check quotes. Reception may be spotty, so please bear with any delays.
We're taxiing on AF1 now at 11:41 a.m.
(Switching to CDT when we touch down in Louisiana, and copying a list of the president's greeter and travel party from the WH below.)
"Greeting the President at JBA:
Col. William "Chris" McDonald, 89th Airlift Wing Vice Commander
Traveling with the President to Louisiana: FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell Jen O'Malley Dillon, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Karine Jean-Pierre, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director Meghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message Planning" 


September 3, 202113:05 CDT

Travel Pool Report #2 | Wheels Down in NoLA 
AF1 just touched down in New Orleans at 12:40 CDT.
POTUS exited at 12:50 pm wearing a mask, rolled up nylon shirtsleeves, and boots – a notecard sticking out of his back pocket. He was followed by Cedric Richmond and Deanne Criswell, who with the president greeted a group of elected officials – polo, mask, sneaker, and baseball hat clad – on the ground. (Full list at the bottom). They huddled and spoke for around 10 minutes, exchanging laughter, handshakes, and pats on the shoulder.
POTUS didn't take time for the pool, ignoring one shouted question. He boarded Marine 1 at 1:04. Pool is boarding ospreys now.
In the air on AF1, Jean-Pierre began briefing during the descent (amid turbulence, to the chagrin of your pool), covering questions on the Afghanistan pullout, whether the president has spoken with Sen. Manchin, the reconciliation package, the leaked conversation with former Afghanistan president Ashraf Ghani, and efforts to recover from Hurricane Ida.
" Greeting the President at Louis Armstrong New Orleans International Airport: Governor John Bel Edwards Senator Bill Cassidy Senator John Kennedy Rep. Steve Scalise, Minority Whip (LA-01) New Orleans Mayor LaToya CantrellJefferson Parish President Cynthia Lee Sheng" 


September 3, 202113:28 CDT

Travel Pool Report #3 | touchdown and rolling 
Through the small windows in the front of the Osprey, the pool caught snippets of the damage left by Ida, including debris and some battered homes.
We touched down at Reserve, LA at 1:16. The president exited M1 at 1:23 pm and boarded a motorcade after greeting Rep. Troy Carter (LA-02) and Rep. Garret Graves (LA-06).
Pool boarded SUV's at the back of the motorcade and are rolling toward LaPlace at 1:27 pm. 


September 3, 202113:42 CDT

Travel Pool Report #4 | holding
?
On the road we saw downed trees and tarped over walls. Miles of tumbled power lines and lineman crews stood parallel to the road. One lineman gave our car the finger.
We exited the cars at 1:35 pm and are holding at St. John the Baptist Parish Executive Operations Center in LaPlace, LA, where the president will receive a briefing from local officials. 


September 3, 202113:50 CDT

Travel Pool Report #5 | briefing begins
?
The president's briefing began at 1:49 pm, amid this smoldering weather.
Will take a transcription via otter and send with quotes.
From the WH: "Participating in the St. John the Baptist Parish Emergency Operations Center Meeting:

 Governor John Bel Edwards
 FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
 Rep. Troy Carter (LA-02)
 Rep. Garret Graves (LA-06)




September 3, 202113:56 CDT

Travel Pool Report #6 | POTUS briefing notes 1
?
Notes from the president's opening remarks, which followed some from Cedric Richmond:
(Many of the comments were mumbled and didn't pick up on the microphone in the small conference room. He spoke without a mask.)
- "This storm has been incredible, not only here but" across the East Coast.
- Mentioned his daughter who went to Tulane and says she asked him to go down to Louisiana.
-Said he understood the frustration about lack of power
-"we're working 24/7 with (power) management companies."
-thanked 25,000 lineman from 32 states
-mentioned direct aid going to Louisiana residents and the bipartisanship of the recovery effort, to multiple nods in the room 


September 3, 202114:01 CDT

Travel Pool Report #7 | POTUS briefing notes 2
?
As always, check quotes against the forthcoming transcript, which I'll send out after it concludes.
-"things have changed so drastically in terms of the environment" that rebuilding infrastructure is difficult
-spoke to the "significant investment" of the reconciliation and infrastructure bills, which he says will help avoid future damage from weather crises
-mentioned that putting power lines underground might save money in the long term
-"I realize that I'm selling as I'm talking too" but the congressional legislation will create jobs
- the levee system around NoLa was "a lot of money, but think about how much money it saved." 


September 3, 202114:11 CDT

Travel Pool Report #8 | briefing color and transcript
?
The briefing room, with brown carpet and gray tables arranged in a horse shoe, held maps of Louisiana on the wall with charts and aerial photographs nearby. POTUS held a pen in his shirt pocket.
Pool was ushered out to motorcade at 2:05, while the meeting continued closed-press.
Link here:
https://otter.ai/u/SsOkP5LvownNo0a5zc6hy_GbBt0 


September 3, 202115:01 CDT

Travel Pool Report #9 | More Color
?
As we wait in the merciful air conditioning of the motorcade, here's some more color from the event, per my co-pooler Geoff Earle of the Daily Mail:
"Biden used the event to pitch the reconciliation bill and his infrastructure plan.
 
"You know I get kind of beat up, criticized," Biden said. 'Things have changed so drastically in terms of the environment. You've already crossed a certain threshold. You can't build back a road, a highway or a bridge to what it was before. You've ego to build back to what it is now.
 
He referenced his daughter Ashley.
 
"What are you spending time talking to the governor of New York? Why are you not in Louisiana?" he said she told him.
 
He talked up $500 FEMA checks. "Sometimes it's just what you need that moment that can make a difference," he said.
 
He thanked linemen who had been lined up along the route taken by his motorcade on the way to LaPlace. He said there were 25,000 of them from 32 states.
 
He mentioned his 'Republican friends' and said: "We're in this together."
 
St. John the Baptist Parish President Jaclyn Hotard told Biden: "Thank you for calling out the insurance companies" in his earlier remarks." 


September 3, 202115:18 CDT

Travel Pool Report #10 | rolling
?
The motorcade departed for LaPlace, where the president will survey damage from Ida, at 3:18 pm. 


September 3, 202115:44 CDT

Travel Pool Report #11 | Neighborhood Visit
?
On the road, the pool saw more destruction from Ida. More felled trees. More debris. Entire walls are stripped off buildings, like a sliced bread end.
POTUS exited his vehicle at 3:28 pm in LaPlace, now wearing a baseball cap. With a mask on he greeted a family outside a nearby house covered by a giant blue tarp and surrounded by downed trees cut by a chainsaw. He hugged family member and shook hands with a little girl who looked awestruck. He then posed for a photo.
In a group, the president walked on the sidewalk to another home, in whose lawn rested a giant uprooted tree. He greeted a family outside the neighboring house and shook hands with a teenage boy. The family's open garage stood behind a blue tent and housed gas containers, propane tanks, and trash cans.
Turning a street corner he hugged a woman who showed him debris around her home.
Prepping for remarks soon. 


September 3, 202115:49 CDT

Travel Pool Report #12 | More details
?
The president greeted a group of neighborhood residents, one of whom carried a sign that said "Biden" with a heart dotting the "i." He stood in the middle of the group, trading different phones to take selfies.
From the WH:
"Joining the President for the tour of the Cambridge neighborhood of La Place, Louisiana:

 Governor John Bel Edwards
 FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell
 Rep. Troy Carter (LA-02)
 Rep. Garret Graves (LA-06)
 St. John the Baptist Parish President Jaclyn Hotard"




September 3, 202116:11 CDT

Travel Pool Report #13 | Remarks
?
POTUS began speaking at 3:50. Governor Edwards introduced him at a podium in the middle of the street.
POTUS thanked the neighborhood for hosting him, and the governor for his leadership. He said the lack of cell connectivity limits public awareness around relief access. He then said he and the governor are walking down the neighborhood to offer such information.
"We're moving quickly to keep gas flowing to the pumps."
"We're putting as much pressure as we can" on insurance companies denying coverage
"No one fled this killer storm because they were looking for a vacation or a road trip."
"Pay what you owe your customers"
"We're making sure this kind of relief is equitable for those hardest hit."
"Hurricane Ida is another reminder that we need to be prepared for the next hurricane."
He then pitched his BBB agenda.
"I know you're hurting"
Transcript to come. 


September 3, 202116:23 CDT

Travel Pool Report #14 | transcript and rolling
?The president continued his neighborhood tour before boarding the motorcade at 4:05 pm. We're now rolling, having regained cell service, on the way to the airport for a flyover. 


September 3, 202116:30 CDT

Travel Pool Report #15 | Arrival and liftoff
?
Pool arrived at Port of South Louisiana Executive Regional Airport at 4:24 pm. The president stood outside Marine 1 as we passed.
We're now boarding ospreys once more to follow as he surveys the Hurricane damage via flyover. Liftoff at 4:30. 


September 3, 202116:39 CDT

Travel Pool Report #16 | transcript take 2
?
Getting word that the attachment was nixed on my transcript report. I uploaded it to Otter, and am trying to link here:
https://otter.ai/u/wWSr0uncGXpOHRfK31fY5M6AUwQ
Also a note from the WH:
"The President will participate in an aerial briefing by helicopter to Galliano, Lafourche Parish" 


September 3, 202117:28 CDT

Travel Pool Report #17 | Touchdown 
Pool touched down at South Lafourche Leonard Miller Jr. Airport at 5:18 pm.
The president exited Marine 1 at 5:27, immediately greeting Minority Whip Steve Scalise (red Nike polo and sneakers) and other local officials.
His meeting with local leaders will be closed press, I'm told by wranglers. 


September 3, 202117:49 CDT

Travel Pool Report #18 | Meeting Note 
From the WH:
" Local leaders meeting with the President in Galliano, Lafourche Parish:
· Governor John Bel Edwards · Rep. Steve Scalise, Minority Whip (LA-01) · Port Fourchon Executive Director Chett Chaisson · Lafourche Parish President Archie Chaisson · Jean Lafitte Mayor Tim Kerner Jr. · Grand Isle Mayor David Camardelle"
According to wranglers the president and pool flew over Avondale, Bridge City, Laffite, Port Fourchon, and Grand Isle. 


September 3, 202118:32 CDT

Travel Pool Report #19 | Liftoff 
The president's meeting ended at 6:26, after which he shook the hands of about 10 service members and first responders. He then stood in the middle and posed for a photo.
The building in which the meeting took place itself looked badly damaged by Ida, with parts of the roof broken off. The president again thanked the local officials he met, and posed for another photo.
POTUS boarded Marine 1 at 6:31, walking past the pool and ignoring shouted questions.
We're en route to New Orleans. 


September 3, 202119:07 CDT

Travel Pool Report #20 | Wheels Up
?
The pool's osprey arrived at New Orleans at 6:51 pm, as the sun set on the city.
President Biden exited Marine 1 at 6:58 pm with Governor Edwards and boarded Air Force 1 a minute later, saluting the marines and walking past the pool without answering shouted questions.
We're taxiing on AF1 now at 7:08 pm, heading to Philadelphia. 


September 3, 202122:38 EDT

Travel Pool Report #21 | touch down
?
AF1 arrived in Philadelphia at 10:19 pm ET.
POTUS exited at 10:30 pm with a folder in hand and walked straight to Marine 1, stationed nearby. Liftoff came at 10:37 pm.
Cedric Richmond, according to Karine Jean-Pierre, stayed in Louisiana. No specific reason apparent, she said.
A big thanks to my co-pooler today. We're soon heading to JBA, so passing the baton to our colleagues in Delaware.
From the WH:
"Traveling with the President to Wilmington, Delaware:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director" 


September 3, 202123:38 EDT

Travel Pool Report #22 | Another Note 
From wranglers:
"After departing the Port of South Louisiana Executive Regional Airport, President Biden flew over toppled electric transmission lines near Avondale, Louisiana and key segments of the federally built Hurricane Storm Damage Risk Reduction System. The President also saw firsthand the impacts of Hurricane Ida's wind and storm surge on Lafitte, Grand Isle and Port Fourchon. The President landed in Galliano and met with local leaders who's communities experienced some of the strongest impacts of the hurricane's force. President Biden has made it clear: the entire Federal Government will do everything possible to help Americans in the wake of a this catastrophic disaster.
—
In the meeting with the President in Galliano, Louisiana:
· Governor John Bel Edwards  · Rep. Steve Scalise, Minority Whip (LA-01)  · Port Fourchon Executive Director Chett Chaisson  · Lafourche Parish President Archie Chaisson  · Jean Lafitte Mayor Tim Kerner Jr.  · Grand Isle Mayor David Camardelle · Cedric Richmond, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President · Liz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor · FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell · Zach Butterworth, Director of Private Sector Engagement" 




Pool Reports below by Alex Gangitano, The Hill 



Sent:
Reports:


September 3, 2021 22:59

Travel pool report #1 - arrival at DANG
?
?Good evening from Delaware, I'll be your print pooler this weekend.
Marine 1 landed at DANG at 10:53 pm.
Upon arrival at Delaware Air National Guard, the President will be greeted by Col Blevins, Delaware Army National Guard Chief of Staff.
 
Motorcade rolling to the residence at 10:58 pm.
Pool was tested this morning in DC. 


September 3, 2021 23:12

Travel pool report #2 - dropped off at residence/ lid
?We dropped President Biden off at his residence in Wilmington at 11:11pm and we have a lid.
Have a good evening!


 

  