
    Senator Sherrod Brown of Ohio blasts Donald Trump's plan to dismantle Social Security, while Biden takes on offshoring
"The last 24 hours have thrown into stark terms whose side the candidates in this election are on.
"Donald Trump sold American workers a phony populism to make them feel like he was on their side, and he betrayed them. Trump has triggered the most severe economic crisis in 90 years - one of the most devastating events for working people in American history - with his failed response to the coronavirus pandemic. Trump always sides with big corporations and his wealthy cronies at the expense of the American middle class. He's still on a years-long crusade to take healthcare away from tens of millions so that he can cut taxes for the rich, he created massive new tax breaks for corporations that outsource our jobs, and he sent manufacturing into a recession last year before the coronavirus emerged.
"At the same time, last night Donald Trump repeated that he would set up a devastating choice for Americans: a fake tax cut that they either have to pay back, or that would dismantle Social Security. Social Security is one of the foundations of our middle class that families count on to have a fair shake. Donald Trump has never earned anything in his life, but he's pledging to cripple the Social Security people earn over a lifetime of work, and providing a terrifying window into how he would use a second term.
"Meanwhile, today Joe Biden is in Michigan, unveiling a new and bold plan that honors the Dignity of Work. Joe's plan will combat the offshoring that Trump has encouraged by ending Trump's massive new tax breaks for corporations that move American jobs overseas, and his plan will create new financial rewards for companies that bring jobs back to the United States.
"This election will come down to one question for American workers: who's on their side? Donald Trump has always chosen corporations over workers, he's abandoned working Americans in a national crisis, and now he's promising to either gut their Social Security, or stick them with a massive tax bill. The choice is obvious: Donald Trump looks out for himself and his wealthy friends; with Joe Biden, American workers will finally have someone in the Oval Office on their side."
  