
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

We Americans can never forget the brave and selfless individuals who have given their lives for our country. Indeed, this year alone has given us several poignant reminders of the debt that we owe to each of them. While the 200th anniversary of our Bill of Rights has renewed our appreciation for the blessings of liberty, the war in the Persian Gulf has deepened our gratitude toward those who have died to win them. On this occasion, however, we honor the mothers of our Nation's fallen. Known as Gold Star Mothers, these women have shared in the sacrifices of their children, and they deserve a commensurate portion of our respect and thanks.
Any parent who has ever suffered the loss of a son or daughter knows that when that child dies, a part of oneself dies too. Accordingly, our Nation's Gold Star Mothers understand the value of liberty because they have borne part of the price that has been paid to defend it. Today many Gold Star Mothers are demonstrating their enduring love of freedom through generous voluntary efforts in their communities -- including special efforts in behalf of veterans and active duty service members.
Although we set aside this day in their honor, let us pay tribute to our Nation's Gold Star Mothers throughout the year by assuring them -- through word and deed -- that their children's sacrifices are remembered and appreciated. Let us continue working to promote respect for human rights and the rule of law around the world, and let us pray for lasting peace among nations, so that no more Americans might die in battle, and so that no more mothers might face war's bereavement.
The Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 115 (June 23, 1936), designated the last Sunday in September as "Gold Star Mother's Day" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim September 29, 1991, as Gold Star Mother's Day. I call on all government officials to display the United States flag on government buildings on this day. I also urge the American people to display the flag and to hold appropriate meetings in their homes, places of worship, or other suitable places, as a public expression of the sympathy and the respect that our Nation holds for its Gold Star Mothers.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  