
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




September 27, 202210:46 JST

VP Travel Pool #1 a. ROK bilat/DMZ news
Pooled entered a small conference room at the RON in Tokyo at 10:32 am for her bilat with Prime Minister Han Duck-soo of the Republic of Korea.
Some news: The PM mentioned VP would be visiting the DMZ in his remarks. VP's office had not previously confirmed. After he said it, we got confirmation from a WH official. See statement below:
On Thursday, September 29, as part of her trip to the Republic of Korea (ROK), the Vice President will visit the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). Nearly 70 years since the Korean Armistice, the visit will underscore the strength of the U.S.-ROK Alliance, and the United States' commitment to stand beside the ROK in the face of any threats posed by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK). The Vice President will tour sites at the DMZ, meet with service members, and receive an operational briefing from U.S. commanders. The Vice President will reflect on the shared sacrifice of tens of thousands of American and Korean soldiers who fought and died together, and will reaffirm that the U.S. commitment to the ROK's defense is ironclad.
The pool spray lasted about 5 mins. Will send some quotes in a min.
BILAT PARTICIPANTS;
U.S. Delegation:- VPOTUS- T.H. Dr. Phil Gordon, AP & National Security Advisor to the Vice President- T.H. Lorraine Voles, AP & Chief of Staff to the Vice President- T.H. Dr. Rebecca Lissner, SAP & Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President- T.H. Edgard Kagan, SAP & Senior Director of East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council Republic of Korea Delegation:- H.E. Prime Minister Han Duck-soo, Prime Minister of the Republic of Korea- H.E. Chung Jinsuk, Deputy Speaker, 21st National Assembly (Interim Chairman)- H.E. Cho Hyundong, Vice Minister of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs- Mr. Kang Jaekwon, Foreign Policy Advisor to the Prime Minister- Mr. Lim Sangwoo, Director-General for North American Affairs



September 27, 202211:06 JST

VP Travel Pool #1 b ROK bilat quotes
Some quotes from VP's bilat with Prime Minister Han Duck-soo of the Republic of Korea. Please check against transcript.
"The United States alliance with the Republic of Korea is the linchpin of security and prosperity. We take that relationship seriously."
Harris said other topics for discussion today would include investments in innovation and technology, space and climate change.
"I look forward to talking with you about the ambitious goals that you have set based on your personal commitment to addressing that issue of climate change," she said.
Prime Minister Han Duck-soo spoke for a couple of minutes after. He spoke in English. It was hard to hear.
"I think your visit to the DMZ and Seoul will be very symbolic demonstrations of your strong commitments to the security and peace to Korean Peninsula and we are working with you and US in dealing with North Korea."



September 27, 202211:54 JST

VP Travel Pool #2 Australia bilat
Pool entered a room for the VP's bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia at 11:32 pm. No news from the spray.
VP spoke first. Please check quotes against transcript.
"I cannot thank you enough for your leadership on many levels."
"It was noted by all of us, when you right after being sworn in and inaugurated I think immediately thereafter, probably there was no time to celebrate, traveled to Tokyo to meet with the quad, which we value as a very important partnership to address some of the most pressing issues facing the world."
She praised him for his work on climate issues and mentioned the climate parts of the Inflation Reduction Act.
Prime Minister Albanese then spoke:
"I was very pleased to meet with President Biden. he was somewhat surprised that under our system, we could have an election on Saturday, and I could arrive in Tokyo on Monday as the new prime minister. I assure you some Australian citizens were surprised as well, but it showed how important it was. And it meant that my government was able to very much get on the front foot very early and to develop those relationships on a personal basis."
He also mentioned the Inflation Reduction Act and said it was "absolutely critical that the world act." Mentioned some of the legislation on climate issues Australia has passed recently.
"The other critical issue, of course, is peace and security in our region. We live in uncertain times."
Pool was ushered out at 11:42 pm.
BILAT PARTICIPANTS:
U.S. Delegation:- VPOTUS- T.H. Dr. Phil Gordon, AP & National Security Advisor to the Vice President- T.H. Caroline Kennedy, United States Ambassador to the Commonwealth of Australia- T.H. Dr. Rebecca Lissner, SAP & Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President- T.H. Edgard Kagan, SAP & Senior Director of East Asia and Oceania, National Security Council
Australia Delegation:- T.H. Anthony Albanese, Prime Minister of the Commonwealth of Australia- Ms. Jan Adams AO PSM, Secretary, Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade- Ms. Kathy Klugman, Principal Advisor, International- Mr. Roderick Brazier, First Assistant Secretary, Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet- Mr. Peter Roberts, Chargé d'affaires to Japan



September 27, 202215:37 JST

VP Travel Pool #3 Abe funeral
The state funeral started at 2:03 pm, with the arrival of the cortege (cremains) at the main entrance. The program was entirely in Japanese and your pooler didn't have a head set to listen to translations. Will just send some color in case helpful.
VP was seated in the fifth row, next to Ambassador Rahm Emanuel, close to the front and near the center aisle (full US delegation listed below). Everyone in the arena was masked.
After the speaking part of the program, VP joined foreign dignitaries in one by one laying flowers at a long table below a photo of Abe at 3:29 pm. She edited the arena right after. At 3:35 pm, we were rolling for VP's next stop: Zojoji Temple.
Memorial addresses in Japanese were given by: Kishida Fumio, PM; Hosoda Hiroyuki, speaker of the House of Representatives; Otsuji Hidehisa, president of the House of Councillors, Tokura Saburo, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court; and Suga Yoshihide, representative of the friends.
The speeches were delivered facing a photo of Abe with the speaker's back to the attendees. They wrapped at 3 pm.
Ahead of the speeches, VP's motorcade arrived at 1:22 pm at a martial arts arena for Abe's state funeral.
A video montage with photos and videos of Abe with world leaders, including those with Trump and Obama and from his 2015 joint session to Congress, played on screens in the arena.
On our way to the arena, we saw rows of service members lined up in white uniforms and black arm bands. We left the RON, where VP did bilats this morning, at 1:13 pm.
Per the WH, members of the US delegation at the state funeral:
VP HarrisThe Honorable Rahm Emanuel, United States Ambassador to JapanThe Honorable Katherine Tai, United States Trade RepresentativeThe Honorable Bill Hagerty, United States Senator (R-TN) and Former United States Ambassador to JapanThe Honorable Philip H. Gordon, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice PresidentAdmiral Michael G. Mullen, U.S. Navy (Ret.), Former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffThe Honorable Caroline Kennedy, United States Ambassador to the Commonwealth of Australia and Former United States Ambassador to JapanThe Honorable J. Thomas Schieffer, Former United States Ambassador to the Commonwealth of Australia and Former United States Ambassador to JapanThe Honorable John V. Roos, Former United States Ambassador to JapanThe Honorable Richard L. Armitage, Former Deputy Secretary of State



September 27, 202216:28 JST

VP Travel Pool #4 a. Zojoji Temple/Harris remarks
FYI Harris gave remarks to the pool at the end her temple tour. She didn't take questions and there wasn't any news, but will send in a min. At 4:23 pm, we are rolling back to the RON.
In the meantime, here's more on her temple tour.
Motorcade arrived at the temple at 3:47 pm after a roughly 10 min drive from the Abe funeral. VP walked into the temple area, where pool was waiting, at 3:54 pm to begin her tour.
"It's beautiful," she said, as she climbed up the first set of stairs to the temple. She stopped for photo ops as she made her way inside the temple.
She chatted with her guide, Deacon Kobayashi-Sama, throughout. She brought up her mother seemingly in the context of Buddhism and meditation but pool was at a distance and couldn't hear their conversation.
When she was inside the temple, she signed an Ema with "Enduring friendship between the Japanese and American people" written on it.
Info on her visit below.
On Background from a WH official
-On Tuesday, September 27, Vice President Harris will visit Zojoji Temple where she will receive a guided tour and learn about the temple's history and cultural significance.
-Former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's family funeral service took place at Zojoji, on Tuesday, July 12, 2022; funerals for his father and grandfather (also a former PM) were similarly held at Zojoji.
-Zojoji Temple was founded in 1393 as a seminary for Jodo-shu, one of Japan's most established and popular forms of Buddhism. In 1598, the temple was relocated to its present site after Tokugawa Ieyasu, founder of the Tokugawa shogunate, established his provincial government in Edo (present-day Tokyo). Sangedatsumon Gate is particularly notable; standing since 1622, it is the oldest wooden structure in Tokyo and has been designated an Important Cultural Property by the Japanese government. The complex is also home to the "Grant Pine," which is not a pine tree but a Himalayan cedar planted in honor of President Grant's visit in 1879.



September 27, 202216:43 JST

VP Travel Pool #4b Harris remarks
Here's a rough transcript of her remarks (please check against official transcript) —
"It's been a very good and important trip that we have made to Tokyo. Of course, under very sad circumstances which is the passing of former prime minister Abe."
"There has been much that has been said in honor of his long leadership to Japan but also to the United States. It was he who coined the term of free and open Indo Pacific…we cherish those principles and we stand by them.
And it is part of the bond that forms the alliance between the United States and Japan."
"So last night, in fact, we celebrated his life with a dinner that was hosted by the current Prime Minister of Japan, where there were wonderful stories being told by people who spent time with him about his life and his legacy."
"Since we've been here, I've also had meetings with the Prime Minister of Korea. I'll be traveling to Seoul, the day after next to strengthen and re establish, of course, that relationship. And I do think about that relationship in the context of a trilateral relationship, certainly a direct responsibility that we have in a sense of responsibility to the security of Korea and then also thinking of that relationship in the context of the alliance with Japan."
" I also met today with Prime Minister of Australia. He and I, and he and the President have a lot in common in terms of the commitment again to the Indo Pacific region and to an opening freedom to Pacific but also we had an extensive conversation about the climate crisis. He as a leader has really stepped up in a very significant, dare I say ambitious way, but his ambition I have no question will be achieved to to have Australia be a leader on the globe on this issue."
"And we discussed the significance, perhaps coincidence, but significance of him stepping up in a role of leadership for Australia, just as we were able to pass the inflation Reduction Act, which the President has signed, invested $370 billion in the work that the United States will do on the issue of the climate crisis."
"So this has been an important trip. And again, to re establish, confirm, re initiate all that we have held there In terms of our membership in this region, but also the alliances that have been long standing, and we are intent on strengthening as we go forward. So with that, it is good to see everyone."



September 27, 202219:28 JST

VP Travel Pool #5 Palace
VP's motorcade was rolling from RON at 6:31 pm. Arrived at Akasaka Palace at 6:37 pm.
As part of the funeral services for former PM Abe, the VP led the Presidential delegation in a receiving line with the Japanese Delegation and Mrs. Abe Akie. Pool covered the first, the second receiving line with Mrs. Abe Akie was closed press. (More info on the receiving line and VP's closed-press meeting with Embassy staff below).
For the first receiving line, VP walked into the room at 6:48 pm with the US delegation and shook hands with the Japanese PM and other leaders (names below). The Japanese were already in the room. She had brief exchanges with some, including the PM, but pool was too far back to hear. She left the room at 6:49 pm.
Pool was ushered out at 6:52 pm and held in press vans while VP met with Mrs. Abe Akie.
We were rolling back to RON 7:05 pm. Arrived back at the RON at 7:18 pm.
From a White House official:
-The Vice President and the delegation will first meet Japanese Prime Minister KISHIDA Fumio, Chief Cabinet Secretary MATSUNO Hirokazu, and Foreign Minister HAYASHI Yoshimasa to express sympathy for former Prime Minister Abe's passing and support for the U.S.-Japan Alliance.
-After, the Vice President and the delegation will meet ABE Akie, wife of former Prime Minister Abe. Vice President Harris will convey the United States' condolences to Mrs. Abe in her time of grief.
-On Tuesday, September 27, Vice President Harris met with US Embassy staff and their families and expressed her appreciation for their service.
- Embassy Tokyo provides services to almost a quarter of a million U.S. citizens living in Japan, including roughly 55,000 uniformed U.S. military service members and 50,000 military civilians, contractors, and family members. The mission has 278 U.S. direct-hire employees and over 400 locally employed staff.



September 27, 202220:21 JST

VP Travel Pool #6 SAO briefing
We got a briefing from senior administration officials on the VP's meetings so far and a preview of her events tomorrow. They also took questions.
Rough transcript of the key parts below and here's an otter link with more https://otter.ai/u/q_o3z8UaCEyxghMwb3MSYovrNdk
Readout of meetings so far:
"The Vice President the entire delegation was moved by the ceremony and some of the speeches that were made about PM Abe and again, she appreciated the opportunity herself to pay her respects to the government and former Prime Minister's wife and to the country of Japan. I'll just sort of give an overview of the core messages because they're very similar in each one. She was here in Japan in the region to underscore our commitment to the Indo Pacific region that ties in with Prime Minister obvious legacy which was so important in strengthening the US Japan alliance, but also in coining this notion of free and open Indo Pacific so it's actually nice for the Vice President to meet with leaders with Japan, South Korea and Australia and in all of those meetings, she underscored the strength of those security alliances."
"Obviously, this is a turbulent time in the region and security challenges in a number of places and most recently...And so in all these meetings, she was interested in underscoring for the leaders, for our counterparts, the strength of our alliances, and I think what was clear in the discussions is a real alignment between the United States and these three countries on the security challenges we face and on the responses that are appropriate."
"And we'll let those other countries themselves characterize their views but I think it's probably fair to say that they appreciated her presence here."
The SAO said Taiwan came up in every bilat. "The Vice President reiterated our consistent view that Chinese actions have been provocative, unnecessary and the United States policy is to oppose any unilateral change in the status quo. We continue to support Taiwan's self defense. It's important to us to work with allies and partners on this issue, and that's one of the reasons that she brought it up in all of these bilateral meetings and why they discussed it, because we need to be aligned and I think we are significantly aligned. Our allies share the concerns that articulated. And I think there was a mutual commitment by all the countries involved to peace and security in the Taiwan Strait."
Preview of tomorrow's events:
"For the CEO roundtable...the idea is that these are Japanese executives, executives who are active in the semiconductor industry, different parts of the supply chains with semiconductors."
SAO said it would be three-part conversation. "One is about investments in the United Statessemiconductor manufacturing -- tghe benefits of that how it will work in the CHIP Act and the associated incentives. Two will be on supply chain resiliency...Three will be a focus on innovation and the research and development component of the CHI[S and science Act."
"The Vice President feels very strongly in the connection between domestic and foreign policy, so when she;s abroad you will see more of this and she wants to do more of this, this idea of, you know, making the case to the American people of why our engagement overseas benefits them and I think this is sort of case in point on that."
Preview of the remarks at the largest naval installment in Japan.
"As you can expect, she will generally thank the service members assembled there for their service and their work, but I think the crux of the remarks will be to connect what they do every day to our broader national security and foreign policy goals, which protect the freedom of the seas here navigation upholding law and making a case about international commerce the free flow of commerce and how their work is really you know, protecting the billions of dollars in the waters of this region every day."
"She will get into sort of threats to the international rules based order and how she sees them."
Questions:
Is there alignment on Taiwan? President Yoon said in an interview on Sunday that priority should be on NK
"I would say that we don't see those two things as either. I think we agree with President Yoo that the ballistic missile tests and potential nuclear tests are destabilizing and we condemn them...we absolutely stand by our commitments to the Republic of Korea, which is something Vice President reiterated in meeting with Prime Minister. But we also have concerns about Chinese actions in the Taiwan Strait, so I don't I don't feel like it's a question of you know, which one is bigger concern."
Any commitments from Japanese on what they would do if China's aggression toward Taiwan continues?
"I think it's only for me to characterize what the United States would do."
on South Korean concerns on EV tax credits:
"The Vice President was not there to negotiate an approach to the issue of electric vehicles."
on the trilateral relationship between japan, Rok and the US -- and issues between Japan and ROK:
"We think is strong and close relationship between Japan and the Republic of Korea is in our interest. In this case, we're gratified to see that both countries seem determined to address those issues."
On Taiwan, did Pelosi's trip or Biden's recent 60 mins specifically come up?
"I think the speaker's trip to Taiwan is the backdrop to the discussions that took place in some of these meetings." SAO pointed to the Chinese response.
"I don't believe that the President's 60 minutes. There was a broader discussion of context to the discussion on the geopolitical environment, security challenges."
on DMZ trip: 
"We sort of came to the conclusion that it made sense and that it was advantageous to go to signal the support for the Republic of Korea to signal, you know, our commitment."
"This is a demonstration of our interest in this issue. And I think the Vice President showing up there makes very clear to our friends and allies in South Korea that even when there are other threats in the region... we're not losing sight of the fact that the DPRK remains a real threat."
On Taiwan, did she echo the president's language re: troops:
"The President's particular remarks on 60 minutes didn't come up, what she said was reiterating all of our policy as the President has articulated. They didn't interrogate her on that specific...There was no specific discussion of who would do what in the military contingency."



September 27, 202220:34 JST

VP Travel Pool #7 list of Japanese execs
Per WH, tomorrow the VP will convene a group of Japanese business executives from companies in the semiconductor industry for a discussion on the CHIPS and Science Act that the President signed into law.
Companies that will be represented:
o Tokyo Electrono Nikono Advantesto Shinetsu Kagaku (Shin-Etsu Chemical)o Hitachi High Tech Corpo Fujibo Groupo Laserteco Sanken Electronicso Shinko Electronicso Showa Denkoo Toyo Goseio Fujitsu Limitedo Micron




  