
    Click here to download the pdf.
"As a lawyer who has spent much of his career working in the criminal justice system as a prosecutor and as a judge, it was inspiring to hear Senator Obama's remarks at Howard. He understands and articulates in a way that no other candidate has that to be effective in the fight against crime we have to ask tough questions that challenge the conventional wisdom and be ready to implement serious changes. The fight against crime, as Senator Obama so eloquently noted, is not only about putting people in jail- it's also about eradicating the conditions that breed crime and making sure that the criminal justice system is fair and is perceived as such. In that regard, through his detailed, specific proposals, he has shown himself to be both tough and smart- the essential qualities in an effective crime fighter. This is among the reasons why I support him for President. He alone among those running for President- including those who claim to be so experienced- has the track record, the vision, the courage and the sense of justice that is so sorely needed at this critical time. With our violent crime rate rising for the first time in years it is time for a new leader with new approaches to the crime problems that have bedeviled us as a nation for too long. That person is Barack Obama." [Eric Holder, Former Deputy Attorney General of the United States, 1997-2001]
"I've been involved in six presidential campaigns and served on two White House staffs. It is rare to hear a leader mix vision and inspiration with serious policy proposals. This wasn't a focus-grouped, calculated balance of toughness and compassion. Obama rooted his agenda in his values and sense of history. His call for this Joshua Generation to take risks and be courageous in their pursuit of justice was somehow both evocative of JFK and powerfully original." [Christopher Edley, Professor and Dean, University of California, Berkeley School of Law; Former Special Counsel to President Clinton and Associate Director of the White House Office of Management and Budget]
"Barack once again proves that he is a candidate who can inspire hope, has the experience necessary to bring people together to tackle some of the most pressing challenges of our time, and can craft solutions that will unify the nation in promoting equal justice and equal opportunity for all. These are the qualities that uniquely define Barack as a leader who is well prepared to be our next president." [Cassandra Butts, Senior Vice President for Domestic Policy, Center for American Progress]
"Senator Barack Obama offers a candid and refreshing assessment of our state of civil rights and racial justice in America today. These are difficult questions to address, but Senator Obama refuses to allow tough issues to divert him from his mission of restoring America's legacy of fairness and justice. His Howard University speech reminds me of President Johnson's historic address there in 1965. Johnson stepped up to the plate at a difficult time on matters of race in America and Senator Obama is stepping up at a time when strong, progressive and new leadership is desperately needed. Barack Obama is good for America." [Charles Ogletree, Jesse Climenko Professor of Law and Founding and Executive Director of the Charles Hamilton Houston Institute for Race and Justice, Harvard Law School]
"Barack Obama continues to both awe and inspire me. Senator Obama's remarks at Howard University put on display the kind of visionary leader that he is - and that the country so desperately needs. The plan he articulated to strengthen our civil rights and criminal justice laws is a clear, thoughtful, and well reasoned approach to addressing some of this country's most pressing issues. Senator Obama is deeply committed to ensuring equal justice for all, a core value to our democracy. Significantly, "equal justice for all" is not a mere slogan for Senator Obama - he provided a roadmap to move the country closer to this ideal." [Ronald S. Sullivan, Jr., Harvard Law School Professor, Former Director of the Public Defender Service for the District of Columbia]
  