
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to appoint one person, nominate three individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to appoint David Longly Bernhardt, of Colorado, to be United States Commissioner of the International Boundary Commission (United States and Canada). Mr. Bernhardt currently serves as the Solicitor of the Department of the Interior and Acting United States Commissioner of the International Boundary Commission. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Solicitor, Deputy Chief of Staff, and Counselor to the Secretary at the Department of the Interior. Earlier in his career, he served as Legislative Director for Congressman Scott McInnis. Mr. Bernhardt received his bachelor's degree from the University of Northern Colorado and his JD from The George Washington University.
The President intends to nominate Jerry Gayle Bridges, of Virginia, to be Inspector General of the Department of Education and designate Acting. Mr. Bridges currently serves as Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service. Prior to this, he served as Controller of Johns Hopkins University. Earlier in his career, he served as Inspector General and Assistant General of the United States Information Agency. Mr. Bridges received his bachelor's degree from the University of Kentucky and his master's degree from the University of Dayton.
The President intends to nominate Sean T. Connaughton, of Virginia, to be Commissioner of the Federal Maritime Commission and upon appointment designate Chairman, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 06/30/12. Mr. Connaughton currently serves as Administrator of the Maritime Administration at the Department of Transportation. Prior to this, he served as Counsel at Troutman Sanders LLP and Chairman of the Prince William (VA) Board of County Supervisors. Earlier in his career, he served in the United States Coast Guard. Mr. Connaughton received his bachelor's degree from the United States Merchant Marine Academy, his master's degree from Georgetown University and his JD from George Mason University.
The President intends to nominate Pamela A. Redfield, of Nebraska, to be a Member of the National Museum and Library Services Board (Library), for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 12/06/13.
  