
    "Today's report confirms that the American Dream remains out of reach for too many families. Nearly 1 in 6 Americans are living in poverty, including a record number of women, and the middle class is struggling amid falling incomes, rising prices, and persistently high unemployment. While this may be the best President Obama can do, it's not the best America can do. Mitt Romney's pro-growth agenda will revive our economy, spur job creation, lift families out of poverty, and create a better future for our country." – Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Today, The Obama Administration Touted New Poverty Numbers As An Achievement:
Today, The Obama Administration Presented New Poverty Numbers As "An Achievement In Tough Economic Times." "Obama administration officials said on Wednesday that the fact that the poverty rate stayed flat was an achievement in tough economic times. ... Rebecca M. Blank, the acting United States commerce secretary, said in a statement that 'if President Obama not taken swift and aggressive action to grow our economy and create jobs, today's report would have shown much higher poverty rates, lower incomes and a greater share of the population without health insurance.'" (Sabrina Tavernise, "Poverty Leveled Off Last Year, Even As Incomes Dropped," The New York Times, 9/12/12)
What Was The Achievement? Nearly One In Six Americans Remained In Poverty And The Nation's Poverty Rate Remained At Unacceptably High Levels:
In 2011, 46.2 Million People Lived In Poverty – Nearly One In Six Americans. "About 46.2 million people, or nearly 1 in 6, were in poverty. That is not statistically different from the 15.1 percent who were impoverished in 2010." ("Census Bureau: Poverty Rate Remains At 15 Percent," The Associated Press, 9/12/12)


    "The Ranks Of America's Poor Remained Stuck At Record Levels..." "The ranks of America's poor remained stuck at record levels, although dwindling unemployment benefits and modest job gains helped stave off what experts had predicted would be the fourth rise in a row in the poverty rate." (Hope Yen, "US Poverty Rate Unchanged; Record Numbers Persist," The Associated Press, 9/12/12)
  

"The Gap Between Rich And Poor Americans Grew In 2011 As The Poverty Rate Remained At Almost A Two-Decade High." "The gap between rich and poor Americans grew in 2011 as the poverty rate remained at almost a two-decade high. The U.S. Census Bureau released figures today that showed household income fell, underscoring a sputtering economic recovery that's at the heart of the presidential campaign." (Catherine Dodge and Frank Bass, "Rich-Poor Gap Widens To Most Since 1967 As Income Falls," Bloomberg, 9/12/12)
The Number Of Women Living In Poverty Climbed To A Record High Of 25.7 Million. (U.S. Census Bureau, 9/12/12)


    16.3% Of Women Were Living In Poverty – The Highest Rate In 17 Years. (U.S. Census Bureau, 9/12/12)
  

The Number Of Families Living In Poverty Increased To A Record High Of Nearly 9.5 Million. (U.S. Census Bureau, 9/12/12)
The Washington Post: "Census: Middle Class Shrinks To An All-Time Low" (Carol Morello, "Census: Middle Class Shrinks To An All-Time Low," The Washington Post, 9/12/12)
And What Else Has President Obama Achieved? Fewer Job Openings And Yet Another Increase In Health Care Premiums:
U.S. Employers Posted Fewer Jobs This Month – Further Evidence That Hiring May Stay Weak In The Coming Months. "U.S. employers posted fewer jobs in July than in June, further evidence that hiring may stay weak in the coming months. Job openings fell to a seasonally adjusted 3.67 million, the Labor Department said Tuesday. That's down from June's 3.72 million job openings, which was revised lower." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "US Employers Posted Fewer Open Jobs In July," The Associated Press, 9/11/12)


    "The Drop In Available Positions Has Made Job Hunting More Competitive. Nearly 12.8 Million People Were Unemployed In July, Meaning 3.5 People Were Competing For Each Open Position." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "US Employers Posted Fewer Open Jobs In July," The Associated Press, 9/11/12)
  

"In July, The Number Of Available Jobs Fell In Manufacturing, Health Care, And Professional And Business Services, A Category That Includes Engineers, Accountants And Lawyers." (Christopher S. Rugaber, "US Employers Posted Fewer Open Jobs In July," The Associated Press, 9/11/12)
Under President Obama, The Average Cost Of Family Health Care Premiums Have Increased From $12,680 To $15,745 – An Average Increase Of Over $3,000 Per Family. ("Employer Health Benefits, 2012 Annual Survey, Exhibit 6.4" The Kaiser Family Foundation, 2012)


    Health Insurance Premiums Have Increased Faster Than Wages And Look Poised To Accelerate In 2013. "U.S. health insurance premiums have climbed faster than wages and inflation this year, and look poised to accelerate in 2013, adding to voter concerns about soaring healthcare costs ahead of national elections in November." (David Morgan, "U.S. Employer Healthcare Premiums Outpace Inflation, Wages," Reuters, 9/11/12)
  

  