
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate:
Barbara Lagoa of Florida, to serve as Circuit Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. 
Barbara Lagoa currently serves as a Justice on the Supreme Court of Florida. Prior to her appointment by Governor Ron DeSantis in 2019, Justice Lagoa was a District Judge on the Florida Third District Court of Appeal. Before taking the bench in 2006, Justice Lagoa was an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Florida and spent 11 years in private practice in Miami, Florida. Justice Lagoa also served as the Chair of the Florida Judicial Ethics Advisory Committee from 2015 to 2016. Justice Lagoa earned her B.A., cum laude, from Florida International University and her J.D. from Columbia Law School, where she served as Associate Editor of the Columbia Law Review.
Robert J. Luck of Florida, to serve as Circuit Judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.
Robert Luck currently serves as a Justice on the Supreme Court of Florida. Prior to his appointment by Governor Ron DeSantis in 2019, Justice Luck was a District Judge on the Florida Third District Court of Appeal and a Circuit Judge for the Eleventh Judicial Circuit Court of Florida. Before taking the bench in 2013, Justice Luck was an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of Florida. Justice Luck also served as an Adjunct Professor at Alabama State University from 2007 to 2008, where he taught an undergraduate class in business law. Upon graduation from law school, Justice Luck served as a law clerk to Judge Ed Carnes of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, to whom he also later served as a Staff Attorney. Justice Luck earned his B.A., with highest honors, from the University of Florida and his J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of Florida Levin College of Law, where he was inducted into the Order of the Coif and served as Editor-in-Chief of the Florida Law Review.
Sherri A. Lydon of South Carolina, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the District of South Carolina. 
Sherri Lydon is the United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina, where she serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer for the District of South Carolina. Prior to becoming United States Attorney in 2018, Ms. Lydon operated the Law Office of Sherri A. Lydon and focused her practice on white-collar criminal defense work. Ms. Lydon previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the District of South Carolina. Ms. Lydon was also appointed to the South Carolina Ethics Commission in 2014, serving as its Vice Chair until 2017. Ms. Lydon earned her B.A. from Clemson University and her J.D. from the University of South Carolina School of Law.
Scott H. Rash of Arizona, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the District of Arizona.
Scott Rash currently serves as a Judge on the Arizona Superior Court in Pima County, where he is the Presiding Family Law Judge. Judge Rash has also overseen civil and criminal dockets. Before taking the bench in 2010, Judge Rash was a shareholder at Gabroy, Rollman, & Bossé, P.C. in Tucson, Arizona, where his practice focused on civil litigation matters. Earlier in his career, Judge Rash served as an Assistant Attorney General of Criminal Prosecution in the Office of the Arizona Attorney General. Judge Rash earned his B.S.B.A., with highest honors, from the University of Arizona and his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Arizona College of Law.
Todd Wallace Robinson, to serve as Judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of California.
Todd Robinson is an Assistant United States Attorney in the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of California, where he serves as Senior Litigation Counsel in the Criminal Division. Prior to becoming Senior Litigation Counsel in 2005, he had served in various other roles in the United States Attorney's office since 1998. Mr. Robinson earned his B.A. from the University of California, Berkeley, and his J.D., cum laude, from Georgetown University Law Center.
  