
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Immigrants from nearly every nation on Earth have taken part in the founding, settling, building, and defending of our land. Prominent among the proud list of our forebears and fellow citizens are Polish Americans, and we can all be grateful for the opportunity given each of us by Polish American Heritage Month, 1988, to recognize their accomplishments.
These achievements have permeated every aspect of American life. The most special characteristic of the Polish people, wherever they may be, has always been a loyal and courageous passion for faith and freedom. Poland's devotion shines so brightly through the centuries, in years of peace and in times of hardship, war, and occupation, that it inspires the people of free nations to a deeper appreciation of their liberty and the people of captive nations to a higher plane of hope.
Poland has given humanity much through the genius of such giants as Copernicus, Madame Curie, Henryk Sinkiewicz, Joseph Conrad, Chopin, and Paderewski. Poland has likewise given America much—through patriotism like that of Pulaski, witness like that of John Cardinal Krol, and the innumerable contributions of generations of Polish immigrants and their descendants. Poland's legacy continues to bless America and all mankind in countless ways today, especially through the leadership and example of Pope John Paul II, Nobel Peace Prize winner and Solidarity Labor Federation leader Lech Walesa, and other lovers of faith and freedom.
The American people feel unwavering unity with the Polish people, now more than ever. Poland's saga must be our own. The freedom loved and advanced so much through the years by loyal Poles and Polish Americans is on the march in every continent today, because freedom is a universal and eternal cause. As we celebrate Polish American Heritage Month, 1988, we celebrate the promise of freedom, the power of faith, and the best in America's history and future.
The Congress, by Public Law 100-385, has designated October 1988 as "Polish American Heritage Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this event.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 1988 as Polish American Heritage Month, and I urge all Americans to join their fellow citizens of Polish descent in observance of this month.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-eight, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and thirteenth.

RONALD REAGAN
  