
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

More than fifty million young Americans contribute to the vitality of our Nation. In their values, aspirations and accomplishments we see reflected not only a rich heritage but a vision of America in the future. It will be a society generous in spirit, strong in character and sincere in purpose—one in which freedom and opportunity give rise to responsibility and excellence.
Just as young Americans can be proud of their contribution to our Nation, they also share a vital part of the life of the smaller community of the family. In this first school where the values of self-reliance, compassion and initiative are taught, the younger members make special contributions to foster the unique identity and sharing of each family. And they prepare for the time when they too will pass on to a new generation the values of our heritage.
For those young Americans in special need we continue to offer support in a variety of activities within the public and private sectors. These support programs are an investment in our national future, and many of the best of them rely not on large sums of money but on the unpaid service of volunteers who contribute their time and experience to the task of forming the next generation. Just as importantly, young people themselves are one of our best sources of volunteers because their energy and idealism give them a natural motivation to devote themselves to helping others.
To assure the Nation's youth of our commitment to share our knowledge, experience and wisdom as they mature towards a full appreciation of democratic principles, the Congress of the United States, by Senate Joint Resolution 597, has designated the week of September 2 through September 8, 1984, as "Youth of America Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of September 2 through 8, 1984, as Youth of America Week.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  