
    The relationship we have with Australia is a terrific relationship, and probably stronger now than ever before.
President Donald J. Trump
CELEBRATING A FRIENDSHIP: President Donald J. Trump is reaffirming and strengthening the long-standing partnership between the United States and Australia. 

President Trump is welcoming Prime Minister Morrison of Australia to the White House to celebrate our countries' close friendship and shared history.

Our nations are reaffirming our common vision for global peace, security, and prosperity.


President Trump is advancing our strong trade and investment partnership with Australia and will tour the new Australian-owned manufacturing facility in Ohio.
Since World War I, the United States and Australia have shared a vital security alliance that will continue long into the future.

STRENGTHENING OUR UNBREAKABLE ALLIANCE: Australia has long been an invaluable ally and supports United States efforts to combat current security threats. 

For more than a century, the United States and Australia have fought side by side in every major conflict to defeat common adversaries.


President Trump is working closely with Prime Minister Morrison to ensure that our strong alliance is effectively combatting current security threats.
Australia has joined the United States in our efforts to secure the safety of international waterways for transit and global commerce.

Australia will join patrols with the United States through the Strait of Hormuz in an effort to protect freedom of navigation around the strait.
Our two countries have agreed to develop a new mechanism to strengthen and align coordination of our Indo-Pacific strategies to promote peace and stability in the region.



ADVANCING OUR ECONOMIC PARTNERSHIP: The Trump Administration is working with Australia to further strengthen our economic partnership by promoting technological innovation. 

Australia is continuing more than 60 years of successful cooperation with the United States in space.

Australia's Space Agency supports NASA's plans to return to the moon by 2024 and to explore areas of mutual interest, such as automation and robotics.




The United States and Australia are developing a plan to improve the security and supply of rare earths and other critical minerals in both countries.
The Trump Administration intends to enhance cooperation between our scientific, engineering, and education communities.

This will advance frontier technologies and identify future research projects that will benefit both nations.


The United States will collaborate with Australia to promote innovation in recycling and waste management to help large source countries reduce discharges of marine plastics.

  