
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




September 15, 202311:53
SGOTUS Pool Report 1
Pool left the White House at 10:50am to meet up with the Second Gentleman at Cuts by Hugo.
Pool arrived at 10:55am after a very uneventful ride around the block to the National Press Building, which Cuts is located in. A "Cuts by Hugo"sign is out on the sidewalk.
Hugo Gonzalez, the owner, told the pool that he was a little nervous about the visit before the SGOTUS arrived. Hugo took says he took over the shop in 2017, and that the pandemic was tough for his business. He says it's slowly getting better, he used to have 5 barbers including him, now he is running the shop by himself with one other barber and working his way back up to full staff. "Do I have to give hair cuts to everyone today?" He joked looking at the crowd of staff and journalists.
Hugo worked previously as a barber in the National Press Club building since 2001, working under a man named Mario. Then he took over in 2017. He's originally from Paraguay.
CBS Sunday Morning is filming today's events for a longer term piece.
The Second Gentleman entered the National Press Club building out of sight of the pool. He entered Hugo's at 11:20am.
He and the SBA Administrator Isabel Guzman, chatted with Hugo about the struggles small businesses faced during COVID. Hugo's was able to get a PPP loan through the SBA's programs.
The Second Gentleman and Gonzalez chatted about their family, and specifically their kids during the haircut. SGOTUS admitted it can be tough living in DC while his children live elsewhere, but said that he and his son were texting last night about the Eagles/Vikings game.
Gonzalez asked Administrator Guzman about some other opportunities available through SBA for small business like his.
SGOTUS also quipped about how it's a little awkward getting his hair cut in front of an audience. "This is one of the most personal things you can do, get a haircut, and I get to do it in front of the national media," he laughed.
He applauded the SBA administrator for her work with small businesses and recovery from COVID. Says that it's nonpartisan and that "when we do these kinds of events, we don't talk about politics. We talk about our kids, our families."
"You get it," said Guzman, pointing out his law practice he gave up when the Biden Administration took over.
As Gonzalez wrapped up, Emhoff said now when people ask "what's the most interesting thing you've done as Second Gentleman? A public hair cut!"
"That is good! That is tight! You know the vice president is going to say honey you look so good! She didn't know I was getting a haircut," said SGOTUS as Gonzalez showed off the haircut.
Second Gentleman took a photo with Guzman and Gonzalez before leaving the shop at 11:48am. He took a photo with the building security guard before leaving the building.
Pool loaded into vans at 11:51am We are now rolling to our next location.
Passing along guidance from the White House on the stops the Second Gentleman is making:




On Friday, September 15, to mark Hispanic Heritage Month, the Second Gentleman and Small Business Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman will visit two Latino-owned small businesses and meet with the owners. The Second Gentleman and Administrator Guzman will highlight how Bidenomics is delivering for Latinos. Under President Biden and Vice President Harris' leadership, Latino unemployment is near record lows, with Latinos creating small businesses at the fastest rate in more than a decade.
At 11:15 AM ET, the Second Gentleman and Administrator Guzman will visit Cuts By Hugo. This visit will be pooled press.
At 12:00 PM ET, the Second Gentleman and Administrator Guzman will visit El Tamarindo. This visit will be pooled press




And here's some more info on background from a White House official:
To mark Hispanic Heritage Month, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff and Small Business Administrator Isabella Casillas Guzman will visit Latino small-owned businesses in Washington, D.C. These businesses also received Paycheck Protection Program (PPP) loans from the SBA, which helped to keep their workforce employed during the height of COVID-19.
Mr. Emhoff and Administrator Guzman will highlight how Bidenomics is delivering for Latinos. Under President Biden and Vice President Harris' leadership, we have seen the largest-ever single-year decline in Latino unemployment, Latino unemployment near record lows, and Latinos creating small businesses at the fastest rate in more than a decade.
This past year, Mr. Emhoff and Administrator Guzman have traveled across the country to meet with small business owners including Texas and Minnesota. Most recently, they visited LGBTQ+ owned small businesses in June, to mark Pride Month.



September 15, 202312:16
SGOTUS Pool Report 2
Pool arrived at El Tamarindo at 12:01pm. SGOTUS walked in 12:03pm. The restaurant serves Salvadorian and Mexican cuisine (your pooler has dined here before and the food is delicious).
"I told you I would be back! I brought some friends this time," said SGOTUS in greeting, gesturing to the pool and SBA Administrator Guzman.
The restaurant opened in February 1982, and is run by husband and wife Jose and Betty and their two daughters Ana and Evelyn. Says they relied heavily on takeout during COVID. Says their catering is really taking off after COVID as well as their event space. Says they faced a staff shortage for a while. "Their food is wonderful," SGOTUS tells Guzman.
SGOTUS and the SBA Administrator exited the main room to head towards a room with a bar and more tables to eat lunch.
Pool was ushered out at 12:10pm and is holding.



September 15, 202312:39
SGOTUS Pool 3
Pool was loaded up at 12:32pm. The Second Gentleman's team told me we will not see the SGOTUS again, and we are rolling back to the White House as of 12:37pm. That's all for me - happy Friday all!




  