
    Pool Reports by Joseph Clark, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 5, 202208:17

Out-of-town pool report #1- checking in
Good morning,
This is your out-of-town print pooler checking in from ahead of the 8:30 a.m. call time.
The out-of-town pool is gathering at the JBA visitor center.
Schedule for first leg of trip below per White House:
8:30 AM Out-of-Town Pool Call Time
Joint Base Andrews Overhang
10:05 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Joint Base Andrews
Out-of-Town Pool
10:55 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Milwaukee, Wisconsin
General Mitchell International Airport, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Open Press
12:15 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks celebrating Labor Day and the dignity of American workers; The Secretary of Labor attends
Henry Maier Festival Park, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Open Press
1:40 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Milwaukee, Wisconsin en route Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
General Mitchell International Airport, Milwaukee, Wisconsin
Open Press



September 5, 202209:36

Out-of-town pool report #2 - pool aboard AF1
Good morning,
The out-of-town pool has boarded Air Force One and is awaiting President Biden's arrival to JBA.
President Biden is expected to arrive in approximately 45 minutes.



September 5, 202209:39

Out-of-town pool report #3 - Traveling with President and First Lady
Good morning,
Per the White House:
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Advisor to the First Lady



September 5, 202210:24

Out-of-town pool report #4
Marine One landed at JBA at 10:07 a.m.
President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden exited Marine One at 10:12 a.m.
President Biden, wearing a dark blue sport coat, white shirt and no tie, saluted and before giving a wave to the press. He took no questions from the press.
The First Lady, wearing a green dress kissed, the President before parting ways.
The President boarded Air Force One at 10:14 a.m.
Air Force One will depart JBA shortly.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, WI:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCurtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for Multilateral AffairsCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic PlanningTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterErika Dinkel-Smith, Director of Labor Engagement



September 5, 202211:12

Out-of-town pool report #5 - Arrival in Wisconsin
Air Force One took off from Joint Base Andrews at approximately 10:26 a.m. ET and arrived at General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee, WI at 10:52 a.m. CT after an uneventful flight.
President Biden exited Air Force One at 11:01 a.m. CT.
Greeting the President upon arrival at General Mitchell International Airport:
Cavalier "Chevy" Johnson, Mayor of Milwaukee
David Crowley, County Executive
President Biden entered the beast at 11:04 a.m. CT. He did not take questions from the press.
The motorcade is en route to Henry Maier Festival Park, Milwaukee, Wisconsin



September 5, 202211:20

Out-of-town pool report #6 - WH comments on OPEC+
White House press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre sends the following:
"The President has been clear that energy supply should meet demand to support economic growth and lower prices for American consumers and consumers around the world. The President has taken action – including historic release of oil from US and global strategic reserves and working with allies on a price cap on Russian oil to ensure we maintain a global supply of oil, even as we punish Putin for his action. U.S. oil production is up by more than half a million barrels per day since the beginning of the year and is on track to be up by more than one million barrels per day by the end of the year, on the way to a new production record next year. Americans have seen gas prices come down every day this summer — 12 consecutive weeks of price declines at the pump and the fastest decline in over a decade. President Biden is determined to continue to take every step necessary to shore up energy supplies and lower energy prices."



September 5, 202212:37

Out-of-town pool report #7 - arrival at venue
The motorcade arrived at Henry Maier Festival Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at 11:20 a.m. CT after an uneventful, sunny drive along Lake Michigan.
Small crowds were gathered outside of the venue, which is hosting the Milwaukee Laborfest, as the president arrived. No protestors were visible. A few union signs were spotted in the crowd.
President Biden is expected to deliver remarks at 12:15 p.m. CT.



September 5, 202211:41

Out-of-town pool report #8 - photoline with President Biden at the Milwaukee Laborfest
Participating in a photoline with President Biden at the Milwaukee Laborfest:
Governor Tony Evers (WI)Secretary Marty Walsh, U.S. Department of LaborRep. Gwen Moore (WI-04)Cavalier "Chevy" Johnson, Mayor of MilwaukeeDavid Crowley, County Executive



September 5, 202212:10

Out-of-town pool report #9 - Livestream of POTUS remarks in Milwaukee
Good afternoon,
President Biden is scheduled to speak at the Milwaukee Laborfest at 12:15 p.m. CT.
His remarks will be streamed live via the following link:
https://youtu.be/wjf-X-Wstxs



September 5, 202212:22

Out-of-town pool report #10 - speaker lineup at Milwaukee Laborfest
Per the White House:
The President is delivering remarks to members of the labor community in Wisconsin, local elected leaders, labor leaders and advocates.
Speaking ProgramPam Fendt, President of the Milwaukee Central Labor CouncilRep. Gwen Moore (WI-04)Liz Shuler, President of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)Secretary Marty Walsh, U.S. Department of LaborGovernor Tony EversEduardo Marquez, member of Laborers’ International Union of North America (LiUNA) Local 113The President
—
President Biden’s remarks will be streamed live via the following link:
https://youtu.be/wjf-X-Wstxs



September 5, 202212:33

Out-of-town pool report # 11- additional greeters at General Mitchell International Airport
President Biden was greeted by the following people at General Mitchell International Airport in addition to those noted in pool report #5:
Dominique Johnson, wife of Mayor Cavalier "Chevy" Johnson, Mayor of MilwaukeeEricka Crowley, wife of David Crowley, County Executive
The full list of greeters is below:
Cavalier "Chevy" Johnson, Mayor of Milwaukee
David Crowley, County Executive
Dominique Johnson, wife of Mayor Cavalier "Chevy" Johnson, Mayor of Milwaukee
Ericka Crowley, wife of David Crowley, County Executive



September 5, 202212:36

Out-of-town pool report #12 - 2 min until POTUS remarks
The White House passed a 2 min warning for President Biden’s remarks in Milwaukee at 12:35 p.m. CT.



September 5, 202213:17

Out-of-town pool report #13 - POTUS remarks in Milwaukee
President Biden took the stage in Milwaukee at 12:27 p.m. CT.
The bleachers at the venue were nearly full when President Biden took the stage. Rows of attendees also stood behind the bleachers.
The crowd stood and cheered loudly as President Biden began his remarks and at several points throughout his speech. Many raised their cell phones to take photos and videos of the speech. Some in the crowd waived American Flags.
President Biden was introduced by Wisconsin Gov. Tony Evers, a Democrat, and by Laborers Local 113 member Eduardo Marquez.
"We have a president who understands the challenges facing families and is willing to work with us to find common sense solutions," Mr. Evers said of President Biden.
Mr. Marquez commented on the bipartisan infrastructure law passed under President Biden "that will creat so many jobs for laborers to repair our bridges, water systems and many other things."
President Biden's remarks focused on his administration's work to create middle class jobs. At several points he made comments critical of "ultra-MAGA" Republicans.
"We remain in the battle for the soul of America," Mr. Biden said.
Mr. Biden was heckled near the end of his remarks by a man seated near the stage. The pooler could not make out what the individual shouted. The heckler was quickly removed by security.
While the heckler was being removed, Mr. Biden encouraged security to let him go.
"Everyone is entitled to be an idiot," Mr. Biden said.
See link for live stream of President Biden's remarks:
https://youtu.be/wjf-X-Wstxs



September 5, 202213:33

Out-of-town pool report #14 - en route to airport
The motorcade departed Henry Maier Festival Park in Milwaukee, Wisconsin at 1:28 p.m. CT en route to General Mitchell International Airport.
President Biden took photos with Laborfest attendees for several minutes following his remarks before departing.
The pool was quickly led to the press van upon departure and your pooler did not see President Biden enter the Beast.



September 5, 202213:49

Out-of-town pool report #15
The motorcade arrived at General Mitchell International Airport in Milwaukee at 1:39 p.m. CT.
President Biden gave no remarks to the press after exiting the beast. He boarded Air Force One at 1:41 p.m. CT.
Air Force One will depart for Pittsburgh shortly.
See schedule below:
4:00 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Pittsburgh International Airport, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Open Press
5:30 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks celebrating Labor Day and the dignity of American workers; The Secretary of Labor attends
United Steelworkers of America Local Union 2227, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Open Press
7:20 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania en route Joint Base Andrews
Pittsburgh International Airport, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
Open Press



September 5, 202213:51

Out-of-town pool report #16 - traveling aboard Air Force One
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Pittsburgh International Airport in Pittsburgh, PA:
Secretary Marty Walsh, U.S. Department of LaborBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryCurtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for Multilateral AffairsCarla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic PlanningTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterErika Dinkel-Smith, Director of Labor EngagementLiz Shuler, President of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)



September 5, 202216:16

Out-of-town pool report #17 - arrival in Pittsburgh
Air Force One landed at Pittsburgh International Airport at 3:54 p.m. ET.
President Biden exited Air Force One at 4:08 p.m. and walked to Marine One without taking questions from the press.
The pool loaded into an Osprey and was wheels up at 4:16 p.m en route to United Steelworkers of America Local Union 2227, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.



September 5, 202216:22

Out-of-town pool report #18 - traveling aboard Marine One
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Allegheny County Airport Landing Zone:
Secretary Marty Walsh, U.S. Department of LaborBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryLiz Shuler, President of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)



September 5, 202216:38

Out-of-town pool report #19
Marine One landed at Allegheny County Airport at approximately 4:29 p.m. President Biden exited Marine One at approximately 4:31 p.m.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Allegheny County Airport Landing Zone:
Senator Bob Casey (PA)Rep. Connor Lamb (PA-17)Rep. Mike Doyle (PA-18)Rich Fitzgerald, Allegheny County Executive (PA)Ed Gainey, Mayor of Pittsburgh (PA)
President Biden did not take questions from the press before entering the beast.
Motorcade is en route to United Steelworkers of America Local Union 2227, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania as of 4:36 p.m.



September 5, 202216:57

Out-of-town pool report #20 - arrival at union hall
The motorcade arrived at United Steelworkers of America Local Union 2227 at 4:41 p.m. The pool was escorted directly to tents staged at the venue. The pooler did not see President Biden exit the beast.
The short motorcade was uneventful. No crowds of supporters or protestors were seen.
Note: America Local Union 2227 is located in West Mifflin, Pennsylvania Southeast of Pittsburgh proper.
President Biden is scheduled to deliver remarks at 5:30 p.m.
His remarks will be streamed live at:
https://youtu.be/d6ossJDl2qo



September 5, 202216:59

Out-of-town pool report #21 - POTUS and Lt. Gov. Fetterman
Per the White House upon arrival at United Steelworkers of America Local Union 2227:
The President is greeting with Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA).



September 5, 202217:01

Out-of-town pool report #22
Per the White House:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Pittsburgh International Airport:
Colonel Troy Wing, Commander, 171st Air Refueling Wing



September 5, 202217:36

Out-of-town pool report #23 - speakers program in Pennsylvania
President Biden emerged form the interior of the union hall with Pensylvanial Lt. Gov John Fetterman, a Democrat, at approximately 5:15 p.m. to cheers from union members and their families gathered outside.
Mr. Biden and Mr. Fetterman posed for photos with attendees for several minutes once outside.
The crowd gathered around the a podium on the exterior of the union hall as the speaking program began at approximately 5:20 p.m.
The setting for Mr. Biden’s speech in Pennsylvania is far more intimate than the venue in Milwaukee.
The president is delivering remarks to members of the United Steelworkers in Pittsburgh, along with their families, labor leaders, and elected officials.
Speaking Program:Tom Conway, International President of the United SteelworkersLiz Shuler, President of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)Secretary Marty Walsh, U.S. Department of LaborRep. Mike Doyle (PA-18)Senator Bob Casey (PA)Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman (PA)Tom Conway, International President of the United SteelworkersThe President
Mr. Biden is scheduled to speak at 5:30 p.m.
His remarks will be streamed live at:
https://youtu.be/d6ossJDl2qo



September 5, 202217:46

Out-of-town pool report # 24 - 2 min warning
The White House passed a 2 min warning until President Biden’s speech at 5:44 p.m.
His remarks will be streamed live at:
https://youtu.be/d6ossJDl2qo



September 5, 202218:09

Out-of-town pool report #25 - POTUS remarks in Pennsylvania
President Biden began speaking at 5:45 p.m and was met with cheers by the crowd gathered in a half circle around and in close proximity to the podium.
Several attendees in the crowd were wearing black shirts that said "Steelworkers Forged Together" in yellow text on the back. Others wore shirts with the United Steele Workers logo on the back.
Mr. Biden praised Lt. Gov. and U.S. Senate hopeful John Fetterman, a Democrat, early in his speech. Mr. Biden said that he would want to be next to Mr. Fetterman if he were "in a fox hole."
Mr Biden also returned to the theme of "ultra-MAGA" Republicans warning that the U.S. has reached an "inflection point" and that "democracy is at stake."
"This is not your Republican Party," Mr. Biden said. "These guys are different."
Mr. Biden also spoke about job creation under his administration.
Mr. Biden concluded his remarks at 6:06 p.m. and was met with a round of cheers.
After finishing his remarks he posed for photographs with attendees in front of the stage.



September 5, 202218:41

Out-of-town pool report #26 - departing
The president was seen mingling with attendees for approximately 25 minutes following his speech.
At one point the President grabbed what appeared to be a cup cake from a table near where press had gathered. The President waved but did not respond to shouted questions. He then ate the cup cake.
The pool was shuttled to the press van at 6:30 p.m. to prepare for departure from United Steelworkers of America Local Union 2227. The pooler did not see the President enter the beast.
Motorcade departed for Allegheny County Airport at 6:36 p.m.



September 5, 202219:10

Out-of-town pool report # #27 - Pittsburgh International Airport arrival
The pool reached Allegheny County Airport at approximately 6:41 p.m. and was immediately escorted to the awaiting Osprey. The pooler did not see POTUS board Marine One.
Pool was wheels up at approximately 6:47 p.m. en route to Pittsburgh International Airport.
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Pittsburgh International Airport:
Secretary Marty Walsh, U.S. Department of Labor
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Liz Shuler, President of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)
The pool landed at Pittsburgh International Airport at 6:55 p.m.
Marine One had landed and was taxiing toward Air Force One by the time the pooler exited the Osprey.
President Biden exited Marine One at 7:03 p.m.
As he exited he donned a baseball cap and gave a slight wave to the press. He had doffed his sport coat which he carried as he walked to Air Force One. He boarded at 7:04 p.m. without taking questions.
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Joint Base Andrews:
Secretary Marty Walsh, U.S. Department of Labor
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic Planning
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Erika Dinkel-Smith, Director of Labor Engagement
Liz Shuler, President of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO)
The press has boarded Air Force One and will be wheels up en route to JBA shortly.



September 5, 202220:15

Out-of-town pool report #28 - JBA arrival
Air Force One landed at Joint Base Andrews at approximately 7:57 p.m.
President Biden exited Air Force One at 8:05 p.m. and walked directly to Marine One.
President Biden did not take questions.
Marine One departed at 8:14 p.m. en route to the White House.



September 5, 202220:17

Out-of-town pool report #29 - traveling on Marine One
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary




 
Pool Reports below by Rob Crilly, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




September 5, 202220:28

In-town pool report #1: South lawn
Marine One was wheels down on the south lawn at 20:24.
POTUS disembarked amid the occasional spot of rain at 20:26.
He was tieless and walked alone to the residence with a briefcase in hand. He ignored shouted questions other than turning briefly to smile.



September 5, 202220:31

In-town pool report #2: russia
Apologies.
Your Pooler couldn't hear anything but apparently POTUS said 'no' to a shouted question about whether Russia should be designated a state sponsor of terrorism. And then smiled.



September 5, 202220:35

In-town pool report #3: lid
White House called a travel photo lid at 20:34.
Goodnight everyone. Enjoy the rest of your Labor Day




  