
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced that Ambassador Julia Chang Bloch has joined Romney for President as National Co-Chair of Asian Pacific Americans for Mitt. Recently, Ambassador Sichan Siv was announced as National Chair. Ambassador Bloch will also provide Governor Romney with important counsel on foreign policy issues.
"Today's announcement is another indication of the strong Asian Pacific American coalition that is forming around our message of change in Washington. Ambassador Bloch has a distinguished career serving our country and is a leader in the Asian Pacific American community. I am proud that she has joined our team," said Governor Romney.
Joining Romney for President, Ambassador Bloch said, "Governor Romney is a proven leader with the energy to bring change to Washington. We need his leadership today if we are to meet the challenges facing our country both here and abroad. I look forward to being a strong surrogate for his message in the Asian Pacific American community, as well as offering my counsel and advice on foreign affairs."
Ambassador Julia Chang Bloch's Background:
Ambassador Julia Chang Bloch Was The First Asian American To Hold The Rank Of U.S. Ambassador. Currently the President of the U.S.-China Education Trust, Ambassador Bloch, since 1998 has also served as Distinguished Adviser and Visiting Professor at Peking and Fudan Universities in China and as Ambassador-in-Residence at the University of Maryland's Institute for Global Chinese Affairs. From 1996 to 1998, she was President and CEO of the United States-Japan Foundation and from 1993 to 1996, she was Group Executive Vice President at Bank of America. Ambassador Bloch co-founded the Organization of Chinese-American Women and the Women's Foreign Policy Group. She has extensive experience in international affairs. She served at the U.S. Agency for International Development and as Ambassador to Nepal. A native of China, she came to the country at age nine and grew up in San Francisco.
  