
    Pool Reports by Anita Kumar, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




 September 22, 2020 09:28

 In-town pool report #1/ UNGA 
Good morning everyone.
The White House passes along:
Excerpts from President Donald J. Trump's address to the 75th Session of the United Nations General Assembly…75 years after the end of World War II and the founding of the United Nations, we are once again engaged in a great global struggle. We have waged a fierce battle against the invisible enemy – the China Virus – which has claimed countless lives in 188 countries.…In the United States, we launched the most aggressive mobilization since the Second World War.…We will distribute a vaccine, we will DEFEAT the virus, we will END the pandemic, and we will enter a new era of unprecedented prosperity, cooperation and peace.…In the earliest days of the virus, China locked down travel domestically while allowing flights to LEAVE China and infect the world.…The Chinese government, and the World Health Organization – which is virtually controlled by China – falsely declared that there was no evidence of human-to-human transmission.…Later, they falsely said people without symptoms would not spread the disease.…The United Nations must hold China accountable for their actions.…Those who attack America's exceptional environmental record while ignoring China's rampant pollution are NOT interested in the environment. They only want to punish America. And I will not stand for it.…If the United Nations is to be an effective organization, it must focus on the real problems of the world. This includes terrorism, the oppression of women, forced labor, drug trafficking, human and sex trafficking, religious persecution, and the ethnic cleansing of religious minorities.…We also know that American prosperity is the bedrock of freedom and security all over the world. In three short years, we built the greatest economy in history.…We spent $2.5 trillion dollars over the last 4 years on our military.…We revitalized the NATO Alliance.…We withdrew from the terrible Iran Nuclear Deal and imposed crippling sanctions on the world's leading state sponsor of terror.…This month we achieved a peace deal between Serbia and Kosovo. We reached a landmark breakthrough with TWO Peace Deals in the Middle East – after decades of no progress.…As we speak, the United States is also working to end the war in Afghanistan – and we are bringing our troops HOME. America is fulfilling our destiny as PEACEMAKER.…For decades, the same tired voices proposed the same failed solutions, pursuing global ambitions at the expense of their own people. But only when you take care of your own citizens, will you find a true basis for cooperation.… 


 September 22, 2020 10:50

 In-town pool report #2/ At the White House 
Good morning again – this time from the White House.
The in-town and out-of-town pools have just been tested for covid.
Before the pool call time, Chief of Staff Mark Meadows spoke with reporters on the White House driveway. C-SPAN has posted the gaggle here:
https://www.c-span.org/video/?476109-1/mark-meadows-speaks-reporters
No other additions to the schedule except for the 1 pm press briefing. 


 September 22, 2020 12:16

 In-town pool report #3/ Lunch lid 
The White House has called a lunch lid until 1 p.m. 


 September 22, 2020 17:56

 In-town pool report #4 /waiting 
??The pool has been gathered for more than 30 minutes at the Palm Room doors to head to the South Lawn for POTUS' departure to Pennsylvania. The White House has not told us what the delay is or when we will go out.
Separately, your pooler learned that earlier today POTUS conducted interviews with: WGN America's News Nation and WBJK (Detroit) 


 September 22, 2020 18:04

 In-town pool report #5 /south lawn 
?POTUS emerged alone from the Oval Office at 6:02 pm.
He stopped to talk. 


 September 22, 2020 18:06

 In-town pool report #6 
??POTUS said he will announce his SCOTUS pick at 5 pm Saturday.
He said he has spoken to "many people" when asked how many people he has interviewed. "I've spoken to many and we are getting close to a decision." 


 September 22, 2020 18:13

 In-town pool report #7 
??POTUS said the Supreme Court will need nine justices to take up election issues. He then launched into his normal tirade on mail in voting.
"They're all great," he said of the people he has interviewed.
When asked about the 200,000 Covid deaths, POTUS said "It's a shame."
Marine One lifted off at 6:12 pm.Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner and their children accompanied him. Mark Meadows and Dan Scavino also boarded.More comments to come. 


 September 22, 2020 18:41

 In-town pool report #8 / more remarks from South Lawn 
?POTUS spoke for about 4 and half minutes about the two topics before walking away.
SCOTUS:
"I'm getting very close to having a final decision made, very close."POTUS declined to say who had met with. "I've talked to many people, many people.""I've spoken to many and we're getting close to a decision…A lot of paperwork to do. And I think it's going to go very quickly.""We need nine justices. You need that with the unsolicited millions of ballots that they're sending. It's a scam. It's a hoax. Everybody knows that. And the Democrats know it better than anybody else. So you're going to need nine justices out there. I think it's very important.""Doing it before the election will be a very good thing…because what they're doing is trying to sow confusion.""Also I have a constitutional obligation to put in nine judges, justices. So I think you're going to be very impressed when you see all of them. They're all great. Very talented people and I think you'll be very impressed by the person chosen."
200,000 Covid deaths:
"I think it's a shame. If we didn't do it properly and didn't do it right, you'd have two and half million deaths…You could have had a number that was substantially more.""With all that being said, we shouldn't have had anybody. You saw my United Nations speech. China should have stopped it at their border. They should never let this spread all over the world and it's a terrible thing….I think it's a horrible thing.""It's a horrible thing. Should have never ever happen. China let this happen. And just remember that.""The original numbers were about 200,000 if you do it right….And if you didn't do it right, you would have been at two million, two and half million….This should have never happen. This should have never come out of China. They should have never let it happen so that's it."
POTUS also spoke about the "very very big" crowd waiting for him in Pennsylvania. "I think it's a lot hotter than it was even four years ago. People like the job we're doing." 




Pool Reports below by Hunter Walker, Yahoo News



Sent:
Reports:




 September 22, 2020 18:28

 Travel Pool #1 - Arrival at JBA 
?Marine One landed at Joint Base Andrews at approximately 6:22 pm.
President Trump disembarked the helicopter about three minutes later. He boarded Air Force one at 6:26 pm. He did not stop to speak with reporters on the tarmac.
The president was followed on board by Mark Meadows and Dan Scavino. He was also joined by Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump, who were accompanied by two of their children. 


 September 22, 2020 18:32

 Travel Pool #2 - Heading Out 
?Air Force One began rolling at about 6:31 pm. We are taking off momentarily.
POTUS is en route to en route to Pittsburgh International Airport for a "Great American Comeback Event."
The scheduled flight time is 55 minutes. 


 September 22, 2020 19:16

 Travel Pool Report #3 - The POTUS has landed 
?Air Force One touched down at Pittsburgh International Airport at 7:14 pm. 


 September 22, 2020 19:30

 Travel Pool Report #4 - In The Air Tonigbt 
?Air Force One came to a stop at about 7:20pm after taxiing past grandstands on the tarmac where a large crowd is assembled for the president.
The pool disembarked ahead of the president and walked towards the venue to the strains of Phil Collins' 1981 classic "In The Air Tonight." The drum break hit at precisely 7:26 pm. The crowd began to sway, of course.
We are currently positioned in a small filing area alongside the crowd. The pool will not be able to see the president disembark the plane from this position. His speech is being aired live. Please refer to broadcasts for quotes.
One note: The venue site is technically in Moon Township, Pennsylvania. 


 September 22, 2020 19:38

 Travel Pool Report #5 - POTUS entrance 
?At about 7:29 pm an announcer introduced President Trump. The music abruptly switched from NSync's "Bye Bye Bye" to the Lee Greenwood anthem "Proud to Be An American."
At about 7:31 pm President Trump came in to view flanked by Secret Service agents and his motorcade, which rolled along the tarmac. He took the stage about a minute later. 


 September 22, 2020 21:10

 Travel Pool Report #6 - Heading back on board 
?The pool began heading back to Air Force One at about 8:59 pm as the president was wrapping up his speech.
Your pooler saw Hope Hicks, Stephen Miller, and Kayleigh McEnany in the backstage area. At about 9:08 pm, the president walked offstage along with Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner, and their children. The motorcade rolled behind them and the pool is bringing up the rear.


 September 22, 2020 21:19

 Travel Pool Report #7 - Wheels Up 
?The president and his family boarded Air Force One at about 9:10 pm. Air Force One began rolling about six minutes later and was wheels up at 9:19 pm. The in flight TVs are silently broadcasting a Sean Hannity segment on "Anti-Religious Zealots."
We are due back at JBA in less than an hour. 


 September 22, 2020 21:55

 Travel Pool Report #8 - Back at Andrews 
?Air Force One landed at JBA at about 9:54 pm after an uneventful trip with no visitors to the press cabin. -- 


 September 22, 2020 22:11

 Travel Pool #9 - Returning to the White House 
?President Trump disembarked Air Force One at about 10:04 pm. He was followed closely by Ivanka Trump, Jared Kushner, and their children.
The president boarded Marine One about a minute later. His family opted to head to a waiting motorcade.
Marine One was rolling at 10:09 pm and is headed back to the White House where the in town pool will take over.
One last extremely important note: colleagues informed your pooler that the president's grandchildren and the press secretary were doing the "YMCA" as the Village People song played when POTUS left the stage in Moon Township. Your pooler did not personally witness this, but we would be remiss if we didn't include the detail. You can do whatever you feel. 




Pool Reports below by Daniel Lippman, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




 September 22, 2020 22:28

 In-town pool report #9/Marine One return to White House + lid 
?Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 10:21 pm on a pleasant Tuesday night. President Trump stepped out three minutes later and walked into the residence alone without speaking to the press, but did wave. Aides Kayleigh McEnany, Dan Scavino and John McEntee also exited Marine One and walked into the West Wing.
The White House has called a travel/photo lid at 10:26 pm.
Have a good night. 



  