
    Today, the American Federation of School Administrators (AFSA) today endorsed Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for president and vice president of the United States. The American Federation of School Administrators is the exclusive national labor union for administrators, professionals and supervisors advocating for excellence and equity in all of our schools, workplaces and communities.
In a letter to the organization's members, AFSA President Ernest Logan wrote, Vice President Biden and Senator Harris "are the best advocates for public schools. They believe strongly that a well-funded public education system is vital to our nation."
The AFSA issued the following press release: 
Biden-Harris Ticket Endorsed by School Principals, Assistant Principals, Leaders
The American Federation of School Administrators (AFSA) today endorsed Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for president and vice president of the United States.
In a letter to the organization's members, AFSA President Ernest Logan wrote, Vice President Biden and Sen. Harris "are the best advocates for public schools. They believe strongly that a well-funded public education system is vital to our nation."
"They understand this is not only key from the economic imperative of educating our children to thrive in the competitive global marketplace, but also from a social and emotional standpoint."
"The Biden-Harris ticket knows our nation depends on the role public schools play in bringing together a melting pot of students to create a better understanding of one other, especially during these challenging and contentious times."
"Since taking office in January 2017, President Trump along with Betsy DeVos, his secretary of education, have been on a crusade to break public schools and move money to private education corporations that have little accountability to communities, families and students. On a grand scale, we have seen that model fail across the nation. Yet at every turn, they aggressively push vouchers and charter schools, and we all know how that agenda undermines our work in the communities we serve."
"We have never had a president and education secretary so hostile toward public schools."
"As we struggle with unprecedented challenges at the start of the school year—like nothing we ever imagined possible—we see clearly the tragic consequences of the mismanagement of the coronavirus pandemic in our classrooms and with our children.
"The lack of investment in our schools during this COVID-19 crisis, and the demand that schools reopen in a normal fashion, shows just how out of touch this president is on how schools operate."
AFSA represents more than 20,000 principals, assistant principals, supervisors and managers serving in public schools across the nation.
For more information visit: www.theschoolleader.org
  