
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 17
In the morning, the President attended meetings at the Pentagon.
September 19
The President announced his intention to appoint Dolly M. Gee and Edward F. Hartfield to the Federal Service Impasses Panel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Isadore (Irv) Rosenthal as the fifth member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board.
September 20
In the afternoon, the President met with Organization of American States Secretary General Cesar Gaviria Trujillo.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Timothy O'Neill as a member of the Federal Housing Finance Board.
The President announced that Freeman J. Dyson and Liane B. Russell are winners of the Enrico Fermi Award.
September 21
In the morning, the President attended a breakfast fundraiser for Pennsylvania gubernatorial candidate Mark Singel at the Hay-Adams Hotel.
The President announced his intention to nominate Vonya B. McCann for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as the Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Communications and Information Policy for the Department of State.
The President announced his intention to appoint Frederick Humphries to the Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities.
The President announced his intention to appoint William A. Gollick and Warren J. Seyler as members of the National Advisory Council of Indian Education.
September 22
In the morning, the President met with Foreign Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Yohei Kono of Japan. In the afternoon, he met with Prime Minister Eddie Fenech Adami of Malta.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert Clarke Brown as a member of the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority.
The President announced his intention to nominate William J. Hybl and Walter R. Roberts to be members of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
The President announced his intention to appoint Barbara Handman as a member of the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Lawrence Harrington, Douglas X. Patino, Linda A. Randolph, John C. Sawhill, and Diane Walton Wood as members of the Enterprise for the Americas Board.
September 23
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Chicago, IL. where he attended a Democratic Senate Campaign Committee reception and dinner.
The President announced his intention to nominate Juliet Garcia and David J. Cortiella as members of the President's Advisory Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanic Americans.
The President announced his intention to appoint Rosalyn Queen to the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to reappoint I. King Jordan as Vice Chair of the President's Committee on Employment of People With Disabilities.
The President announced his intention to appoint John H. Catlin to the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board.
The President announced his intention to appoint Richard Nathan to the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
The President announced his intention to appoint William F. Woo to the President's Commission on White House Fellowships.
The President announced his intention to nominate James E. Hall to be Chair of the National Transportation Safety Board.
  