
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

During the past two decades, the use of illegal drugs in the United States spread at an unprecedented rate and reached into every segment of our society. The youth-oriented drug culture was foreign to most of our adult population. We lacked accurate information about the hazards of some of the most widely used drugs, and our efforts to combat the lies, misconceptions, and moral confusion surrounding drug abuse lacked credibility. There was a feeling of inevitability regarding widespread drug use and uncertainty over what was the right thing to do.
The early 1980s have brought a dramatic change. People no longer believe that drug abuse is inevitable. There is growing recognition that by working together to eliminate the abuse of drugs, we can make a real difference in the lives of our children and a better future for America.
One of the most effective weapons we have against drug abuse is our ability to communicate the truth about drugs to the user and the potential user. Research and the personal experience of families across the Nation are expanding our knowledge of drug abuse and how to stop it. This new knowledge is being used by parents, community volunteers, local officials, teachers, health care professionals, and young people themselves. These are the individuals who are closest to current potential drug users, and they can have the greatest influence in preventing the abuse of drugs.
Across America, all levels of government, businesses, educational institutions, civic groups, and individual citizens are organizing activities which will help persons of all ages to say "no" to drug abuse. These Americans are committed to raising the awareness of the dangers of drug abuse and creating a positive environment in which drug abuse is unacceptable behavior.
To call attention to these important efforts, the Congress, by House Joint Resolution 529, has designated the week beginning September 23, 1984, as "National Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Week" and has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 23, 1984, as National Drug Abuse Education and Prevention Week, and I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities. Let all of us seek every opportunity to learn the truth about drug abuse and join in the national fight to create a drug-free America.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 21st day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and ninth.

RONALD REAGAN
  