
    
  FORMER CONGRESSMAN, MASSACUSETTS PARTY CHAIR PETER TORKILDSEN, REPS PAUL FROST, KIMBERLY FERGUSON, PETER DURANT, AND JAY BARROWS, AND STATE PARTY TREASURER BRENT ANDERSEN THINK JOHN KASICH SHOULD BE PRESIDENT

Frost, Ferguson to serve as Massachusetts State Co-Chairs for Kasich for America
Today former Congressman and Massachusetts State Party Chair Peter Torkildsen joined State Representatives Paul Frost, Kimberly Ferguson, Peter Durant, and Jay Barrows, as well as State Party Treasurer Brent Andersen, to endorse Ohio Governor John Kasich for President.
A former Massachusetts State Representative, Peter Torkildsen served in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1993 – 1997; no Massachusetts Republican has been elected to the U.S. House since. Torkildsen was later elected Chair of the Massachusetts Republican State Committee, defeating five opponents for the leadership position. Said Torkildsen, "I served in Washington with John Kasich, and his leadership and resolve were the key factor in balancing the federal budget. John has demonstrated that he is uniquely capable of helping to solve vexing problems and getting people to work together for the greater good, and I look forward to working with my colleagues to send him to the White House."
State Representative Paul Frost was first elected to the legislature in 1996, and throughout his nearly two decades of service, he has maintained a 100% voting attendance record. Frost serves in leadership as an Assistant House Republican Floor Leader, and over the years has distinguished himself as a strong, consistent voice on lower taxes and job creation. "When electing a President, experience always matters," said Frost. "But with John Kasich, it is his experience in national security, balancing the budget, and getting Ohio back on track that separates him from all the other candidates. While others talk about what they want to do, John Kasich can say that he's already done it."
First elected to the Massachusetts legislature in 2010, State Representative Kimberly Ferguson – a speech pathologist by trade – is a legislative leader on issues impacting children, the elderly, and those with developmental disabilities. Said Ferguson of Kasich, "By focusing greater attention to the poor, the mentally ill, and the developmentally disabled, John Kasich is bringing empathy and compassion to the forefront of the Republican debate. He knows that as you help create jobs and provide for greater economic prosperity, nobody should be left behind. This is a message that resonates with Americans, and I am proud to become part of his team."
Also announcing their support for Kasich today were Massachusetts State Representatives Peter Durant and Jay Barrows, along with Massachusetts Republican Party Treasurer Brent Andersen.
"I couldn't be more pleased with the team we have begun to assemble in Massachusetts," said Kasich. "I am grateful for their support and for the confidence they have placed in me, and my campaign will benefit greatly from their experience, wisdom and influence."
  