
    Pool Reports by Sebastian Smith, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




September 9, 202208:29

Travel pool report 1 - Checking in + backgrounder
Good morning from JBA, where your pool and AF1 await POTUS for departure to Ohio. The president will be speaking at the groundbreaking of an Intel semiconductor plant, before continuing to Wilmington, Delaware for the weekend.
For anyone interested, here's a meaty check-in/backgrounder.
Per a senior White House official:
"President Biden will travel to Licking County, Ohio to deliver remarks at the groundbreaking of Intel's new $20 billion semiconductor manufacturing facility in Licking County, near Columbus, Ohio. The facility will contain at least two 'fabs', which will be built by union labor, creating over 7,000 construction jobs and 3,000 full time jobs producing leading edge chips.
"Intel committed this funding in anticipation of the passage of the bipartisan, CHIPS and Science Act, which will provide investment and R&D to the semiconductor industry.
"Thanks to the President's economic plan – including the CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the Inflation Reduction Act – we are seeing a manufacturing boom nationwide, that is strengthening our economic and national security and creating good-paying, American jobs. Our economy has already added more than 680,000 manufacturing jobs since President Biden took office, which is more manufacturing jobs on average per month than any other President in the last 50 years."
The White House also provides the following roundup of what it says happened in the "last few weeks":

Micron announced it will invest $15 billion in a new memory chip manufacturing facility in Boise, Idaho, creating 17,000 jobs.
GlobalFoundries/Qualcomm will invest $4.2 billion to manufacture chips in an expansion of GlobalFoundries' upstate New York facility.
Major global companies are choosing America as the place to invest and build—Toyota announced an additional $2.5 billion investment in its Greensboro, NC battery manufacturing plant and Honda announced plans for a $4.4 U.S. billion battery plant with LG Energy Solutions.

And there's more…:
On Background From Senior White House Official:
"As part of the President's visit to Ohio, Intel will announce it has distributed $17.7 million to Ohio colleges and universities to develop semiconductor-focused education and workforce programs, as part of its $50 million Ohio Semiconductor Education and Research Program. This includes partnering with community colleges across Ohio, the state's oldest historically Black university, and other institutions to train thousands of workers to work in Ohio's growing semiconductor industry. Intel and the National Science Foundation will invest $100 million in similar programs across the country."
Finally, here is today's schedule (NB the press secretary's gaggle on AF1 this morning):
9:00 AM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Joint Base AndrewsSouth Lawn (Gather 8:50 AM – Palm Room Doors)Open Press
9:20 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Columbus, OhioJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
10:30 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Columbus, OhioColumbus International Airport, Columbus, OhioOpen Press
12:15 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on rebuilding American manufacturing through the CHIPS and Science Act at the groundbreaking of the new Intel semiconductor manufacturing facilityLicking County, OhioOpen Press
1:35 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Columbus, Ohio en route Dover Air Force BaseColumbus International Airport, Columbus, OhioOpen Press
3:00 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Dover Air Force Base en route Wilmington, DelawareDover Air Force BaseOut-of-Town Pool
3:20 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Wilmington, DelawareDelaware Air National Guard BaseOut-of-Town Pool 
Briefing Schedule
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Licking County, Ohio



September 9, 202209:52

Travel pool report 2 - POTUS boards AF1. No gaggle
Marine One landed at JBA at 9:42 a.m. The president walked over to AF1 (the big plane today), pausing as if hesitating on whether to answer pool's questions, but then heading on up the stairs.
Per the White House, potus was met by Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing.
The White House also sent this list of other Marine One passengers:

Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations

We're taxiing at 9:50 a.m, wheels up shortly.
Note the Karine Jean-Pierre briefing which will be piped through on the usual White House YouTube page during our flight, which is due to run about 1:10 hour.



September 9, 202210:50

Travel pool report 3 - Ohio wheels down + motorcade
AF1 was wheels down in Columbus, Ohio, at 10:36 a.m. No visitors to the press cabin other than the gaggle with Press Sec Jean-Pierre.
POTUS deplaned at 10:45 and did not stop to talk to pool.
Motorcade is rolling for the Intel site at New Albany, Licking County.
Here is a list of the people who were with the president on the plane, per the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Columbus International Airport:• Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)• Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-3)• Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President• Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations• Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary• Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council• Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting• Christopher Slevin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs• Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room• Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations• Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director• Zach Butterworth, Director of Private Sector Engagement



September 9, 202211:21

Travel pool report 4 - arrival Intel site
POTUS motorcade arrived at the future Intel semiconductor site at 11:18 a.m.
Pool was not able to see POTUS exit the Beast.
On the road we passed approx 20 supporters of Donald Trump, bearing signs and flags that included "Let's go Brandon " and "Trump won", as well as some vulgarities. A small, separate group was composed of people with Proud Boys signs.
Mostly though the road went through expanses of fields before ending at the site, featuring a lot of diggers and other heavy building equipment.
The president's speech is scheduled for 12:15 but we are currently running a quarter hour late.
Here is the list per WH of motorcade travelers:
Traveling with the President in the motorcade en route groundbreaking site of the new Intel semiconductor manufacturing facility:

Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-3)
Andrew Ginther, Mayor of Columbus (D-OH)
Shannon Ginther (Mayor Ginther's wife)
Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Christopher Slevin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic Planning
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Zach Butterworth, Director of Private Sector Engagement

And for the record, the WH gives these names of the Columbus airport greeters:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Columbus International Airport:

Andrew Ginther, Mayor of Columbus (OH)
Shannon Ginther (Mayor Ginther's wife)




September 9, 202211:24

Travel pool report 5 - run of show
From the WH:
Tour Stop With Workers
Prior to delivering remarks, the President will meet with a group of workers who are members of local unions that will benefit from the new Intel facility. These workers include pipefitters, electricians, excavators, ironworkers, safety managers, shift supervisors and more. They will share with the President what their jobs entail and how this new facility - which will create over 7,000 constructions and 3,000 full time jobs producing leading edge chips - will make a difference for them and their families.
Speaking Program
Prior to the President's remarks, Central Ohio Technical College student Affiong Hawkins will speak and introduce Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger. Hawkins is a STEM major at Central Ohio Technical College, and a working mother. As part of the President's visit to Ohio, Intel announced it has distributed $17.7 million to Ohio colleges and universities to develop semiconductor-focused education and workforce programs. These investments will help students like Hawkins, who will have the opportunity to get the training needed to work in Ohio's growing semiconductor industry.
Following Hawkins' remarks, Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger will introduce the President. Gelsinger last saw the President on August 9, 2022 at the signing of the CHIPS and Science Act. Gelsinger was was named CEO in 2021 and spent the first 30 years of his career at Intel.

Governor Mike DeWine
Senator Sherrod Brown
Senator Rob Portman
Congressman Troy Balderson
Congressman Tim Ryan
Congresswoman Joyce Beatty
Lieutenant Governor Jon Husted




September 9, 202211:52

Travel pool report 6 - Intel site visit + Rep. Ryan quotes
The president was shown a model of the future factory and some pictures of what it's meant to look like, before he met 11 workers dressed in high-vis yellow jackets and hard hats.
It's difficult to hear against the constant noise of enormous earth movers working to level the area behind the president.
As he approached the workers, Biden said: "These are my people, where I come from."
And earlier, while checking the factory model alongside Gov. Mike DeWine, Sen. Sherrod Brown and Sen. Rob Portman, he said approvingly: "Not bad work, huh?"
If you need a snapshot of what the scene looks like I posted a couple on Twitter @SebastianAFP
Impossible to transmit is the smell, which seems to be more related to the surrounding farms than the semiconductor future.
Pool now holding in intense sunshine ahead of the president's address. We did briefly speak to Congressman Tim Ryan of Ohio who was asked about his earlier comments regarding a second Biden term.
Ryan said:
"The president said from the very beginning he was going to be a bridge to the next generation, which is basically what I was saying."
Should Biden run again?"That's up to him
Asked about China tariffs should be lifted, Rep. Ryan said "no," mentioning this would be "damaging" to the state's sole panel industry.



September 9, 202212:24

Travel pool report 7 - POTUS address two min warning
The WH gave a two min warning at 12:23 pm.
The president will take the podium under blazing sunshine. There are several hundred people in the audience seated on white folding chairs. A big US flag hangs from the digging arm of a yellow earth digger. Other pieces of heavy equipment surround the site, while still more pieces of machinery continue to churn away in the field behind.
You can get this speech live on the WH YouTube site, posted here, so will not send quotes.
https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=ePCPCEkAxpk



September 9, 202212:58

Travel pool report 8 - speech ends
President Biden's address started at 12:33 pm and lasted 18 minutes.Pool is holding in the motorcade, unable for now to lay eyes on POTUS' movements. The WH says he is doing a photo line



September 9, 202213:05

Travel pool report 9 - rolling
At 1:03 p.m, the motorcade is rolling for Columbus airport.
The WH provided this list of people in the photo line:
Participating in a photo line with the President:

Governor Mike DeWine (OH) and Frances DeWine, First Lady of Ohio
Jon Husted, Lieutenant Governor of Ohio with Tina Husted, Wife
Senator Sherrod Brown (OH)
Senator Rob Portman (OH)
Senator Maria Cantwell, (WA)
Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-03)
Rep. Ro Khanna (CA-17)
Rep. Eddie Bernice Johnson (TX-30)
Sloan Spalding, Mayor of New Albany
Rick Black, Licking County Commissioner
Jay Hottinger, Ohio State Senator
Mark Fraizer, Ohio State Representative
Justin Bibb, Mayor of Cleveland
Andrew Ginther, Mayor of Columbus and Shannon Ginther

Also for the record the run of show for the speech as it actually happened per the WH:
Ohio Program Jerry Revish, event emceeKeyvan Esfarjani, Chief Global Operations and General Manager at IntelLieutenant Governor Jon Husted (OH)JP Nauseef, CEO of JobsOhioGeneral Lester Lyles, former U.S. Air Force GeneralChristy Pambianchi, Executive Vice President and Chief People Office of IntelDr. Fredric Bertley, the CEO of the Center of Science and Industry (COSI)Stephanie Hightower, the CEO of Columbus Urban LeagueRep. Troy Balderson (OH-12)Rep. Joyce Beatty (OH-3)Jim Evers, a factory manager at Intel, delivers remarksJerry Revish
Pre-ProgramJerry Revish, event emceeKeyvan Esfarjani, Chief Global Operations and General Manager at IntelGovernor Mike DeWine (OH)A STEM Student from OhioSenator Rob Portman (OH)A construction worker from OhioSenator Sherrod Brown (OH)Dr. Kristina Johnson, President of Ohio State University
Speaking ProgramAffiong Hawkins, Central Ohio Technical College student to the stage.Pat Gelsinger, CEO of IntelThe President



September 9, 202213:35

Travel pool report 10 - Biden quote on Queen funeral
Pool asked if he will attend the funeral."Yes. I don't know what the details are yet but I'll be going," Biden replied.



September 9, 202213:41

Travel pool report 11 - AF1 + additional quote
POTUS boarded Air Force One after an uneventful motorcade. He came briefly over to talk to pool (see previous report). An Additional quote. When asked if he had spoken to King Charles III, Biden replied:
"I know him. I haven't spoken to him. I did not call him."
.at 1:40 pm We are now taxiing. Next stop: Dover Air Force Base.
Here's the WH manifest for the motorcade from the Intel site:
Traveling with the President in the motorcade en route Columbus International Airport:

Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Christopher Slevin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Zach Butterworth, Director of Private Sector Engagement




September 9, 202215:00

Travel pool report 12 - AF1 wheels down + boarding M1
AF1 was wheels down at Dover AFB at 2:42 pm. We had an off the record visit to our cabin from National Economic Council director Brian Deese. Otherwise uneventful.
POTUS disembarked at 2:53 pm without coming over to see pool.
He then boarded Marine One en route to Delaware Air National Guard base near Wilmington. Pool is following in an Osprey. We are lifting at 2:58 pm.
The WH provided this list of AF1 passengers:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Dover Air Force Base:

Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Brian Deese, Assistant to the President & Director of the National Economic Council
Vinay Reddy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Speechwriting
Christopher Slevin, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of the Office of Legislative Affairs
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Zach Butterworth, Director of Private Sector Engagement




September 9, 202215:31

Travel pool report 13 - DANG
Marine One landed at DANG at 3:23 pm. POTUS got into his limo and at 3:30 pm we are rolling.
The WH sent this:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Delaware Air National Guard Base:

Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations

*Clarification on report 12 - so no confusion, the Deese visit was not OTR, only the discussion we had was OTR.



September 9, 202215:54

Travel pool report 14 - residence
At 3:40 pm the front of the motorcade peeled off into the Biden family's Wilmington residence. Pool did not lay eyes on the president. We are now heading to our hotel.
Thanks for help today from Alex Leary and other poolers.



September 9, 202216:07

Travel pool report 15 - lid
At 4:05 pm the WH announced a travel-photo lid.




 
Pool Reports below by S.V. Dáte, HuffPost 



Sent:
Reports:




September 9, 202208:55

WH pool report 1 — awaiting departure
Pool has been gathered for Marine 1 departure on the South Lawn driveway.
The helicopter is here, turbines whining. Now awaiting the president.
Departure is open press, so you could be here if you wanted.



September 9, 202209:33

WH pool report 2 — Departure, no remarks
The president emerged from the South Portico entrance at 0920 and made a beeline to the several dozen White House staff gathered behind a rope line across from the assembled press.
He shook hands and chatted for seven minutes, then walked directly from the far end of the roped-off area to the helicopter, waving to the media and climbed aboard at 0928. He was never closer than 200 feet from us.
Marine 1 lifted off into the nearly cloudless blue at 0932, en route to Joint Base Andrews for the trip to Ohio.
Per the WH press office:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Joint Base Andrews:

Steve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Marc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation Room
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations

Handing off to my capable colleague in the French media for continued pool coverage of today's presidential events.
Au revoir.




  