
    President George W. Bush today announced he has nominated five individuals and also intends to nominate one individual and intends to appoint eight individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to appoint R. Timothy Ziemer of Virginia, to be Coordinator of United States Government Activities to Combat Malaria Globally. Admiral Ziemer currently serves as the President's Malaria Initiative Coordinator at the United States Agency for International Development. Prior to this, he served as Executive Director and Program Director for World Relief. Earlier in his career, he served as a Rear Admiral in the United States Navy. Admiral Ziemer received his bachelor's degree from Wheaton College.
The President has nominated James W. Ceaser, of Virginia, to be a Member of the National Council on the Humanities, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 01/26/14.
The President has nominated the following individuals to be Representatives of the United States to the 63rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
Anthony H. Gioia, of New York;
Bob Corker, of Tennessee;
Bill Nelson, of Florida.
The President has nominated the following individual to be an Alternate Representative of the United States to the 63rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
Karen Elliot House, of New Jersey.
The President intends to nominate the following individual to be an Alternate Representative of the United States to the 63rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
Cheryl Feldman Halpern, of New Jersey.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Coordinating Council on Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention:
Byron R. Johnson, of Texas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/18/11;
Roland C. Warren, of Maryland, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/18/10;
Harry Wilson, of Michigan, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/18/09.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Directors of the Vietnam Education Foundation:
Viet Dinh, of Virginia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 04/17/11;
Elizabeth Dugan, of the District of Columbia, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 04/17/10;
Christopher J. Fussner, of Florida, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 04/17/11;
Stephen F. Maxner, of Texas, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 04/17/10.
  