
    To the Congress of the United States:
I am pleased to transmit this report on the Nation's achievements in aeronautics and space during fiscal year (FY) 1997, as required under section 206 of the National Aeronautics and Space Act of 1958, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2476). Aeronautics and space activities involved 13 contributing departments and agencies of the Federal Government, and the results of their ongoing research and development affect the Nation in many ways.
A wide variety of aeronautics and space developments took place during FY 1997. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) successfully completed eight Space Shuttle flights. There were 23 successful U.S. Expendable Launch Vehicle (ELV) launches in FY 1997. Of those, 4 were NASA-managed missions, 2 were NASA-funded/Federal Aviation Administration (FAA)-licensed missions, 5 were Department of Defense-managed missions, and 12 were FAA-licensed commercial launches. The Mars Pathfinder spacecraft and Sojourner rover captured the public's attention with a very successful mission. Scientists also made some dramatic new discoveries in various space-related fields such as space science, Earth science and remote sensing, and life and microgravity science. In aeronautics, activities included work on high-speed research, advanced subsonic technology, and technologies designed to improve the safety and efficiency of our commercial airlines and air traffic control system.
Close international cooperation with Russia occurred on the Shuttle-Mir docking missions and on the International Space Station program. The United States also entered into new forms of cooperation with its partners in Europe, South America, and Asia.
Thus, FY 1997 was a very successful one for U.S. aeronautics and space program. Efforts in these areas have contributed significantly to the Nation's scientific and technical knowledge, international cooperation, a healthier environment, and a more competitive economy.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, September 14, 1998.
  