
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Gary Blumenthal – Member, National Council on Disability
•      Maurice A. Jones - Deputy Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
•      Susan A. Maxman - Member, Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences
•      Matthew S. Rutherford - Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets, Department of the Treasury
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key administration post:
•      Rachel F. Moran – Member, Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise
President Obama said, "It gives me great confidence that such dedicated and capable individuals have agreed to join this Administration and to serve the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Gary Blumenthal, Nominee for Member, National Council on Disability
Gary Blumenthal is the President and CEO for the Association of Developmental Disabilities Providers (ADDP). He also served as the Executive Director for the Alta California Regional Center, which oversees service delivery for children and adults with developmental disabilities in the Sacramento region. Previously, Mr. Blumenthal was the Wichita Regional Director for the Kansas Department of Social and Rehabilitation Services, CEO for the Florida State Protection and Advocacy Programs for People with Disabilities, and Director of the President's Committee on Mental Retardation during the Clinton Administration. Mr. Blumenthal was also a member of the Kansas House of Representatives for 11 years and an American Government teacher in the Shawnee Mission Public Schools in Overland Park, Kansas for 12 years. Mr. Blumenthal was first appointed to the National Council on Disability in 2009. He is a graduate of the University of Kansas, Lawrence and the University of Missouri, Kansas City.
Maurice A. Jones, Nominee for Deputy Secretary, Department of Housing and Urban Development
Maurice A. Jones is currently President and Publisher of Pilot Media, a position he has held since 2008. Previously, Mr. Jones served as Vice President of the Landmark Publishing Group within Landmark Media Enterprises, where he coordinated strategic planning efforts of several Landmark newspapers, including The News & Record in Greensboro, NC; The Roanoke Times; The Capital Gazette in Annapolis, MD; and Landmark Community Newspapers, Inc., based in Shelbyville, Kentucky. Mr. Jones previously served as Commissioner for the Virginia Department of Social Services, Deputy Chief of Staff for the Office of the Governor of Virginia, and a Partner in Venture Philanthropy Partners. During the Clinton Administration, he served as Legal Counsel, Deputy Director for Policy and Programs, and Director of the Community Development Financial Institutions Fund at the Department of the Treasury. Mr. Jones holds a B.A. from Hampden-Sydney College, an M.Phil. in International Relations from St. John's College at Oxford University, and a J.D. from the University of Virginia School of Law.
Susan A. Maxman, Nominee for Member, Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences
Susan A. Maxman was the Founder and Principal Architect of SMP Architects from 1980 until 2011. Ms. Maxman was the first female President of the National American Institute of Architects. She has also served on the Eco-Efficiency Task Force of the President's Council on Sustainable Development, as Chair of the Urban Land Institute's Environmental Council, and represented the architectural profession at the 1992 Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro. In addition, she has served on many boards and organizations, including the Board of Overseers of the Graduate School of Fine Arts at the University of Pennsylvania and the Planning and Design Commission of the Georgia Institute of Technology. Ms. Maxman has received the 2001 March of Dimes Service to Humanity Award, the Distinguished Daughter of Pennsylvania Award, and the Mayor's Commendation from the City of Philadelphia. Ms. Maxman received her M.Arch. from the University of Pennsylvania.
Matthew S. Rutherford, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets, Department of the Treasury
Matthew S. Rutherford has served since 2009 as the Department of the Treasury's Deputy Assistant Secretary for Federal Finance. In this capacity, he is responsible for overseeing the Office of Debt Management, which is the policy arm of the Treasury that makes issuance decisions to finance the government. Prior to his appointment at the Treasury, Mr. Rutherford held several roles in the Markets Group at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Mr. Rutherford holds an M.P.P. from the University of Chicago and a B.A. in Economics from Lafayette College.
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Rachel F. Moran, Appointee for Member, Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise
Rachel F. Moran is the eighth Dean of the University of California, Los Angeles, School of Law. Prior to this, she served as the Robert D. and Leslie-Kay Raven Professor of Law at the University of California, Berkeley, School of Law. She is a former President of the Association of American Law Schools, served on the Standing Committee of the Division of Public Education for the American Bar Association, and won a Distinguished Teaching Award from the University of California, Berkeley. She writes extensively on education law with an emphasis on questions of equity and access. Ms. Moran received her A.B. in Psychology with Honors and with Distinction from Stanford University and her J.D. from Yale Law School where she was an editor of the Yale Law Journal.
  