
    In the CNN Reagan Library debate Wednesday night, Senator Lindsey Graham was the hands down winner.
Here are nine of our favorite moments where Senator Graham came out on top:
1. Challenged the other candidates to come up with a plan to defeat ISIL

Senator Graham is the only candidate with a clear plan to defeat and destroy ISIL. He challenged his fellow Republicans to commit to ground forces in Iraq and Syria, because without boots on the ground, they cannot be defeated.
2. Noted the similarities between the Donald's foreign policy and a cartoon character

Senator Graham has stated that the next Commander-in-Chief needs to be ready to lead on day one. The only veteran on the debate stage, he is a candidate who got experience from visiting the region over 35 times, and didn't learn about it from television.
3. Used his notorious quick wit to keep the serious talk light

Using a few jokes to inject a bit of light into some serious subjects, Senator Graham was sure to show off his well-known sense of humor during Wednesday night's debate.
4. Vowed to follow in Ronald Reagan's footsteps and raise the glass a little more in Washington

Paying homage to the Gipper at his own library, Senator Graham reflected on the days when Washington used to work and promised a more direct dialogue with Congress when he is President. "We're going to drink more" — a plan everyone can endorse.
5. Had some choice words for the Democratic frontrunner, Hillary Clinton.

Senator Graham is one of the toughest critics on Hillary Clinton's foreign policy and her handling of Benghazi. As president, he will get answers for the families who lost love ones in this preventable attack.
6. Set himself apart from other politicians and acknowledged his...linguistic shortcomings

7. Promised to lead the Republican Party to #winning the 2016 election

Winning the debate last night, Senator Graham showed America that he is the experienced candidate that we need to defeat Hillary Clinton in 2016.
8. Addressed the crippling debt and a pathway forward

Growing up in the back of a bar in Central, SC, Senator Graham explained why more government regulations on small businesses would hurt the middle class even further.
And finally...
9. Did something unheard of in this race...and laid out a serious plan to secure our nation and move our country forward

Senator Graham understands that experience matters more than rhetoric and actions mean much more than talk. Graham has a clear vision to secure our nation, our future and our values.
  