
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate)(Kennedy (D) MA and 41 others)
The Administration strongly opposes enactment of S. 110. If this bill were presented to the President in its current form, his senior advisers would recommend its disapproval.
The Administration supports a Federal role in providing family planning services. However, S. 110 is designed to erode the integrity of the Federal family planning program by promoting its involvement in abortion. Title X is a preventive family planning program designed to reduce the incidence of abortion. It should not be involved in abortion-related activities in any way.
The Administration supports family planning programs that are not abortion related. The President's 1991 Budget includes a proposal that would provide for maximum State and local control over sensitive issues surrounding the delivery of family planning services. Specifically, the Administration has proposed that the current Title X categorical family planning program be changed to a program of direct grants to States. State-administered family planning programs are the best means available for delivery of family planning services to low-income persons. This important change would have the added benefit of better integrating family planning with the delivery of maternal and child health services. Further, this proposal does not use taxpayer dollars to promote abortion.
S. 110 would not convert the current Title X program into a direct grant program to States. In addition, it would not prevent the potential diversion of funds from the primary focus of the program — prevention of unintended pregnancies and facilitation of wanted pregnancies. The bill's total FYs 1990-92 authorizations are also excessive — exceeding the President's budget request by $172 million. Finally, the provisions of S. 110 that would provide duplicative authority for contraceptive research, as well as information and education activities, are unnecessary. Current authorities are broad enough to encompass such activities.
  