
    Eleven Current and Former Iowa Legislators Now Backing Klobuchar
DES MOINES, IA — Following the third Democratic primary debate and the conclusion of Klobuchar's 17th trip to Iowa, a group of six former state legislators announced their endorsement of U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for president. According to Iowa Starting Line, "Klobuchar has the support of more current and former legislators from Iowa than any other presidential candidate."
Former State Representative and former Mayor of Cedar Rapids Kay Halloran; former State Representative, former Chair of the Pottawattamie County Democrats, and former president of the Iowa State Education Association Linda Nelson; former State Senator David Johnson; former State Senator Roger Stewart; former State Representative John Wittneben; and former State Senator Pat Deluhery join a growing list of endorsements for Klobuchar in Iowa. These legislators join other former legislators, Iowa Representative Bill Witt and former Iowa State Representative and State Senator Swati Dandekar, in endorsing Klobuchar.
"U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar is smart and pragmatic and that's exactly what we need in the next President of the United States. We need someone who isn't fluff, who can roll up her sleeves and get the job done. After seeing her in the third debate, my choice was clear. That's why I'm ready to get to work to make Amy our next president," said former Iowa State Representative and former Mayor of Cedar Rapids Kay Halloran.
"After spending time with U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and watching her in the debates, I know that she is the candidate who can bring this country together. Her broad appeal and desire to unite people around a common cause is what we need in this primary, and exactly what we need in the White House. Not only does she have bold ideas that will make a difference in the lives of Iowans and all Americans, but she has a plan to put them into action and a way to pay for them.
"As a past president of the Iowa State Education Association and someone who taught elementary school for 37 years, I want a candidate who prioritizes teachers and public education — and that's Amy. I know that an early endorsement can mean a lot, and that's why I'm proud to announce my endorsement of her candidacy for President," said former State Representative and former Chair of Pottawattamie County Democrats Linda Nelson.
"It's imperative that our next president not only recognizes the existential threat that climate change poses to our country and the world, but also has a plan to address it. As a former Chair of the Iowa Senate Agriculture Committee, I appreciate a candidate who understands that it will take all of us — farmers, scientists, consumers, conservationists, and everyone in between — to combat this crisis. We need a candidate who has a proven record of bringing people together to solve such challenges. That candidate is U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar and that's why I'm proud to be supporting her for president," said former State Senator David Johnson.
"Today I am proud to announce my endorsement of U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar for President," said former State Senator Roger Stewart. "Amy knows how to win in tough districts — she's proven this time and again in our neighboring state of Minnesota — and we need a fighter like that to defeat Trump. Her midwest sensibilities and record of getting results greatly impressed me and should impress everyone who wants to move our country forward."
"I first heard U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar speak at the Dickinson County Summer Sizzler in August and, like many others that evening, I felt that Amy was speaking directly to each of us. Since that time, I have found her to be a very dynamic person who's attuned to the problems we face and someone who has proven that she can work with others to identify solutions to those problems. Amy has the fire to get the job done and that's why I'm endorsing her for President," said former State Representative John Wittneben.
"To be successful in 2020, we must win back key states that were lost in 2016 and U.S. Senator Amy Klobuchar is the woman who can get the job done," said former State Senator Pat Deluhery. "Amy's midwest perspective is attractive to caucus-goers and voters across the board. Her focus on making sure that kids who grow up in small towns and rural America can stay there is something I've spent my career pushing for and I'm happy to work alongside Amy to continue the fight."
Klobuchar has also received endorsements from several current legislators, public servants, and political and community activists, including:
• Former IDP Chair Dr. Andy McGuire• Iowa Representative Ruth Ann Gaines• Iowa Representative Marti Anderson• Iowa Representative Molly Donahue• Former Iowa Legislator and U.S. Ambassador Swati Dandekar• Former Iowa Representative Bill Witt• Former President of the National Corn Growers Association Pam Johnson• Adel City Council member Shirley McAdon• IDP Black Caucus Chair Jamie Woods• Political and community activist (The Caucus Couple) Ruth Thompson• Political and community activist (The Caucus Couple) Scott Thompson• Community activist Fran Parr• Community activist Jackie Wellman• Community activist Melissa Fath• Dave and Mary Jensen, retired commodity crop farming family in Iowa Falls• Dan and Allison Sorenson, cattleman, commodity crops farmers in Dickens
  