
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
This Administration is determined to develop food and agricultural policies which 'help the people who need help most, both in the United States and abroad. By encouraging efficient agricultural production, especially on the family farm, we can ensure reasonable incomes for producers and fair prices for consumers. An efficient productive system will also help us meet the demands of foreign markets. Our policy should give our producers the greatest possible access to foreign markets, while helping poor nations improve their own ability to produce and distribute food.
The Secretary of Agriculture has primary responsibility in the Executive Branch for developing policies and actions in food and agriculture. In order to exercise this responsibility, the Secretary of Agriculture must weigh and balance interests represented in other parts of the Executive Branch. Accordingly, I am directing the Secretary of Agriculture to form a Working Group on Food and Agricultural Policy. This Working Group will be chaired by the Secretary's designee and will be composed of representatives at the level of assistant secretary from these organizations:Department of StateDepartment of the TreasuryDepartment of AgricultureOffice of the Special Representative for Trade NegotiationsAgency for International DevelopmentCouncil of Economic AdvisorsOffice of Management and BudgetNational Security Council
The Secretary of Agriculture may invite representatives of other organizations in the Executive Branch to serve in the Working Group.
In consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture and the White House Domestic Policy Staff, the Working Group will develop an agenda for policy considerations on domestic and international food and agriculture. The Secretary of Agriculture, in consultation with the Domestic Policy Staff, will inform me of policies adopted and actions taken and will refer to me policy options on issues requiring Presidential decision.
A subcommittee of this Working Group will serve as the vehicle for developing an Administration policy on world hunger. This Subcommittee will report its findings and recommendations directly to me and to the Secretary of Agriculture.
To insure coordination, I am asking the Domestic Policy Staff to inform other organizations in the Executive Branch of policy issues to be addressed and decisions made on domestic and international food and agriculture.
The Department of Agriculture and the Domestic Policy Staff will provide staff for the Working Group on Food and Agricultural Policy.
JIMMY CARTER
  