
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The men and women who toil in America's agricultural sector endure many challenges and hardships in bringing to market their diverse and high quality foods and grains. This dedication to efficient production contributes significantly to the competitiveness of our Nation. Because we benefit from the bountiful harvests of these farmers and ranchers, it is fitting and appropriate that we observe National Farm Safety and Health Week to promote public awareness of the need for and the importance of agricultural worker health and safety.
For decades, much has been accomplished through initiatives aimed at providing a safer environment for farmers, ranchers, and farm workers. Significant engineering advances have provided guards, shields, and protective equipment, which reduce the hazards and risks associated with agriculture. Educators and concerned organizations have increased knowledge and changed attitudes and behaviors relating to safe work practices in the agricultural sector. However, there is still much to be accomplished.
The arena of agricultural worker health presents many challenges. Long hours, the pressures associated with growing crops and raising livestock, and the vagaries of weather contribute to the creation of stressful situations to both body and mind. For example, agricultural workers have been shown to be particularly susceptible to skin problems, most notably skin cancer, due to exposure to the sun. Prolonged periods of loud noise are contributing to higher than normal levels of permanent hearing loss among farmers and ranchers. Constant exposure to hazardous chemicals may also predispose workers to health problems. While farming and ranching offer their practitioners many great returns, it should be recognized that agricultural professions are among the most dangerous.
The next generation of farmers and ranchers is at special risk. Children are routinely exposed to powerful, complex farm equipment. Some chemicals and some work hazards such as dusts and flowing grain may detrimentally affect the health and safety of children. Their maturity and development must always be considered with regard to agricultural work. During National Farm Safety and Health Week, all of our Nation's citizens should resolve to make health and safety initiatives an integral part of America's great farming traditions.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the Week of September 19-25, 1993, as "National Farm Safety and Health Week." I urge all citizens of our great Nation to make the enhancement of farmer, rancher and farm worker health of utmost priority. I call upon the agencies, organizations and businesses which serve production agriculture to strengthen their commitment to agricultural safety and health programs.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  