
    ''Intel breaks ground on massive project; Biden, others hail Silicon Heartland launch''Wolfspeed announces $5 billion investment in Chatham County, largest in NC history'
This week, local news outlets are reporting about how President Biden's economic plan has led to a nationwide manufacturing boom that is creating good-paying jobs in communities across the U.S.
On Friday, President Biden traveled to Licking County, Ohio and declared: "'Made in Ohio' and 'Made in America' is no longer just a slogan. It's happening," said President Biden. "Folks, the future of the chip industry is going to be made in America."
During his visit, he joined with Intel and Ohio leaders for the groundbreaking of a new semiconductor chip manufacturing facility that will create over 7,000 construction jobs and 3,000 full time jobs. The commitment from Intel was made possible by passage of the bipartisan CHIPS and Science Act, which President Biden signed into law a few weeks ago.
During the speech, the President also highlighted the latest string of manufacturing investments by companies across the U.S., including Wolfspeed, which announced Friday that they will invest $5 billion to build a new silicon chip factory that will create 1,800 good-paying jobs in North Carolina.
Read below for a sample of what Americans are reading in the states.
President Biden in Ohio

Columbus Dispatch: President Joe Biden at Intel event: 'Made in Ohio' no longer just a slogan
President Joe Biden told the crowd at the groundbreaking of Intel's semiconductor factories in Licking County on Friday that "Intel is going to build the workforce of the future right here in Ohio." "It's time to bury the label Rust Belt," Biden told the crowd, which started gathering early in the morning for the event. "Made in Ohio and made in America is not just a slogan. It's happening," Biden celebrated Intel's investment in the factories as a sign of the return of American manufacturing in general, and semiconductor production in particular. "We need to make these chips right here in America," he said. "America's back. ... The future of the chip industry is going to be made in America, made in America."
More stories: 

The New York Times: In Ohio, Biden Says Democrats Have Started a Manufacturing Revival
Washington Post: Biden's visit shows high stakes of $20 billion Ohio chip factory
Bloomberg News: Biden Touts Chips Law at Intel Site in Midterm Battleground Ohio
Columbus Dispatch: Ohio welcomes Biden, Intel for $20 billion groundbreaking
Toledo Blade: Biden highlights CHIPS Act at Ohio Intel plant groundbreaking
Dayton Daily News: Dayton Daily News: Biden, DeWine break ground on huge Intel factory
Crain's Cleveland Business Journal: Biden: Intel groundbreaking buries Ohio's Rust Belt label
WOSU Columbus: President Biden comes to Central Ohio for Intel groundbreaking
WBNS Columbus: President Biden joins Ohio officials, Intel executives to celebrate groundbreaking ceremony in New Albany
WSYX Columbus: President Biden at Intel ceremony: 'Time to bury the rust belt'
WOIO Cleveland: President Biden travels to Ohio as Intel breaks ground on $20B semiconductor site
WHIO Dayton: Biden boasts return of 'industrial Midwest' at groundbreaking for Intel semiconductor plant
WLWT Cincinnati: President Joe Biden visiting Ohio Friday for Intel groundbreaking
WDTN Dayton: President in Ohio for Intel groundbreaking

North Carolina Wolfspeed Announcement
WRAL Raleigh: Wolfspeed announces $5 billion investment in Chatham County, largest in NC historyWolfspeed will build a new semiconductor plant at a 400-acre site in Chatham County with an estimated investment of $5 billion and a commitment to create more than 1,800 jobs paying $77,000 a year on average…. The investment over time stands to be the largest in North Carolina history, exceeding the $4.5 billion commitment by automaker VinFast to build a plant. That investment is also going to Chatham County.
  