
    Pool Reports by Aurelia End, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




September 4, 202307:31

Out of town pool report #1 - Leaving Rehoboth
Good morning from Rehoboth.
The motorcade pulled up at Gordons Pond at 7:20 am.
The president, wearing a navy blue suit and his signature aviator sunglasses, got out of his car at 7:21. He immediately boarded Marine One.
The helicopter was wheels off at 7:26 am.
Your pool was too far away to shout questions.
Below is the president's schedule for the day and info on travelers aboard M1.
Handing off to the supplemental pool now, have a great day.
Per the WH
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to Dover Air Force Base:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa7:15 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Rehoboth Beach, Delware en route to Dover, DelawareRehoboth Beach, DelawareOut-of-Town Pool
7:45 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Dover, Delaware en route to Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaDover Air Force Base, Dover, DelawareSupplemental Pool
8:15 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaOpen Press
9:20 AM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks celebrating Labor Day and honoring America's workers and unions at the Annual Tri-State Labor Day ParadeSheet Metal Workers' Local 19, Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaOpen Press
10:20 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Philadelphia, Pennsylvania en route to en route to New Castle, DelawarePhiladelphia International Airport, Philadelphia, PennsylvaniaSupplemental Pool
10:50 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in New Castle, DelawareDelaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, DelawareSupplemental Pool
4:45 PM In-Town Pool Call Time
5:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs New Castle, Delaware en route to Joint Base AndrewsDelaware Air National Guard Base, New Castle, Delaware Supplemental Pool
6:15 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White House Joint Base AndrewsSupplemental Pool
6:25 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White House South LawnOpen Press (Gather 6:15 PM– Palm Room Doors)




 
Pool Reports below by Linda Feldmann, The Christian Science Monitor 



Sent:
Reports:




September 4, 202307:54

Supplemental travel pool report 1 - POTUS arrives Dover
Marine One landed at 7:48 am at Dover Air Force Base, where your "supplemental" travel pool was pre-positioned bright and early for POTUS flight to Philadelphia.
He stepped out of M1 at 7:52, saluted greeter and walked with him to AF1. No gaggle with pool. At top of stairs he turned, saluted, and pointed
Wheels up shortly.
POTUS is scheduled to deliver Labor Day remarks at 9:20a at Sheet Metal Workers' Local 19, Philadelphia. The event is open press, and will be streamed at WhiteHouse.gov/live.
Note, we are on small AF1, with limited connectivity.



September 4, 202307:58

Supplemental travel pool report 2 - travelers
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Philadelphia International Airport:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKristen Orthman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Communications DirectorTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North AfricaSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterErika Dinkel-Smith, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Labor Advisor



September 4, 202308:58

Supplemental travel pool report 3- arrival in Philly
AF1 was wheels up from Dover AFB at 8:07 am. Landed Philadelphia International Airport at 8:37.
Potus stepped out of AF1 at 8:50 and gestured to greeters from the top of stairs. Chatted with greeters, who were dressed casually in polo shirts, for a couple of minutes before stepping into the Beast. One greeter, older gentleman in blue polo, was invited to ride with potus in the beast.
Potus was asked by pool if he was worried about auto strike. Answer was inaudible, but WH transcriber says he said he didn't think there would be one. Efforting an exact quote.
Potus then entered beast.
Motorcade rolling for Sheet Metal Workers' Local 19, Philadelphia, at 8:57 am.



September 4, 202309:06

Supplemental travel pool report 4- Biden quote on auto workers
Biden exact quote on potential auto strike:
"No I'm not worried about a strike... I don't think it's going to happen"
Thank you to Trevor Hunnicutt of Reuters for transcribing that!
See live stream of speech here, skedded for 920:
https://youtube.com/watch?v=3zI3dw7PvUI



September 4, 202309:09

Supplemental travel pool report 5- arrival at union hall
Motorcade arrived at Sheet Metal Workers' Local Union 19 at 9:08 am after uneventful ride.



September 4, 202309:21

Supplemental travel pool report 6- greeters at Philly airport
From WH:
Greeting the President upon arrival at Philadelphia International Airport:
Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)Bob Brady, former Pennsylvania Congressman



September 4, 202309:40

Supplemental travel pool report 7- event scene/photoline names/run of show
Upon arrival, pool was escorted thru the union building, past a photoline (for photos w/POTUS), and into the parking lot behind the building, set up for the event. There's a giant American flag on the brick wall behind the event stage. Several hundred people are in attendance, maybe a thousand-plus, poolers are estimating. Union trucks line the back of the parking lot, including Teamsters.
Pool is situated in a filing area behind risers, thus we can't really see the event.
Warm-up speakers began at 9:24. "Joe Biden's got receipts. He's the best union president we've ever had," said the first speaker, Danny Bauder, President of the Philadelphia Council (AFL-CIO). He mentioned CHIPS bill and rebuilding of I-95 overpass.
Re that Biden quote to pool on possible auto workers strike: Please check available audio to get the whole thing. It was difficult to hear.
From the WH:
Participating in a photo line with the President at Sheet Metal Workers' Local 19:
Senator Bob Casey (PA)Rep. Brendan Boyle (PA-02)Rep. Dwight Evans (PA-03)Rep. Mary Gay Scanlon (PA-05)Bob Brady, former Pennsylvania CongressmanState Senator Nikil Saval (District 1)State Senator Sharif Street (District 3)
Pre-ProgramDanny Bauder, President of the Philadelphia Council (AFL-CIO)Daisy Cruz, District Leader, Service Employees International Union (SEIU 32BJ)Ryan Boyer, President of the Philadelphia Building Trades CouncilRep. Dwight Evans (PA-03)Senator Bob Casey (PA)
Speaking ProgramBrittany Rivera, Apprentice, Sheet Metal Workers' Local 19The President



September 4, 202309:42

Supplemental travel pool report 8 - POTUS remarks starting now
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3zI3dw7PvUI



September 4, 202310:10

Supplemental travel pool report 9 - POTUS remarks end
POTUS remarks began at 9:42, ended at 10:08
He is standing on an outdoor stage, with workers in union t shirts positioned all around him/ kind of a theater in the round setup. Multiple signs at his feet say Union Strong. T shirts come in an array of colors - red, yellow, blue, orange, repping an array of unions: sheet metal workers, steamfitters, carpenters, AFSCME, SAG-AFTRA, electrical workers, flight attendants.
Potus is in shirtsleeves. It's sunny and 84 degrees out but feels worse- super muggy. He's standing by lectern with presidential seal.
Some POTUS quotes, please check against transcript:
"The only thing that comes with age is a little bit of wisdom"
"Unions built the middle class"
"America has the best workers in the world, that's a fact"
"Wages are growing faster than inflation. This didn't just happen. We made it happen"
On Bidenomics: "it's working"
Asks crowd for a show of hands: "Who"s a veteran?" Many hands go up.



September 4, 202310:48

Supplemental travel pool report 10- back to airport
Pool was escorted out of the event site while Potus worked the rope line. Motorcade departed at 10:33; many people in union T shirts lined the route out.
Motorcade arrived Philadelphia International Airport at 10:42 am. Potus immediately ascended steps into AF1, did not take questions.
AF1 Rolling shortly for DANG, then we drive to Wilmington for a few hours.



September 4, 202311:18

Supplemental travel pool report 11- DANG
AF1 departed Philly airport at 10:53am, wheels down at Delaware Air Nation Guard Base at 11:02.
Biden emerged from af1 at 11:14 still in shirtsleeves and baseball cap. Talked to greeters for a moment then got into Beast. No gaggle.
Motorcade is rolling for Wilmington at 11:17



September 4, 202311:22

Supplemental travel pool report 12- AF1 travelers
From the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Delaware Air National Guard Base:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKristen Orthman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Communications DirectorZayn Siddique, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Director of the Domestic Policy CouncilTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterErika Dinkel-Smith, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Labor Advisor



September 4, 202311:33

Supplemental travel pool report 13- lunch lid till 4 pm
Motorcade arrived Biden residence at 11:30. Pool van will soon proceed to hold location.
We have a lunch lid till 4 pm.



September 4, 202313:27

Supplemental travel pool report 14- that Biden quote on possible strike
During our pool hold, more folks had a close listen to the audio of Biden's response re whether he's worried about a possible auto workers' strike. Here's the consensus on what he said:
"No, I'm not worried about a strike until it happens. I don't think it's going to happen."



September 4, 202314:25

Supplemental travel pool report 15 - lunch lid now ending at 3pm
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



September 4, 202316:01

Supplemental travel pool report 16 - rolling for DANG
Press van fell in behind POTUS motorcade, emerging from his neighborhood in Wilmington, at 4:00 pm. We are en route Delaware Air National Guard Base for flight to JBA.



September 4, 202316:12

Supplemental travel pool report 17 - DANG, rolling for JBA
Motorcade arrived at DANG at 4:09 pm after uneventful ride. Potus stepped up into AF1 at 4:10. We are rolling shortly for JBA.



September 4, 202316:13

Supplemental travel pool report 18 - travelers
Per the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKristen Orthman, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Communications DirectorTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North AfricaErika Dinkel-Smith, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Labor Advisor



September 4, 202317:00

Supplemental travel pool report 19- arrived JBA
AF1 was wheels up from DANG at 4:19 pm, landed JBA at 4:44.
POTUS exited AF1 at 4:53, descended steps, saluted greeters, walked straight to Marine One. M1 lifted off at 5:00pm.
Many thanks to co-poolers for their help and good cheer!
Handing off to in-town pool.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKristen Orthman Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Communications DirectorTerry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for the Middle East and North Africa




 
Pool Reports below by Jacob Gardenswartz, The Wyoming Truth 



Sent:
Reports:




September 4, 202314:30

In-town WH Pool #1: Call time pushed up
Hi there,
Jacob here from the Wyoming Truth - I'll be your in-town pooler for President Biden's arrival back at the White House later today.
Call time has just been pushed up to 3:30pm. No additional updates shared as to how that might impact the timing of the president's arrival this evening but we'll keep you posted.



September 4, 202317:02

In-town WH Pool #2: Gathered at WH
Your pool has gathered at the Palm Room doors and expect to be heading out shortly.
In case there was any doubt, we have a good weather call from the White House (though given the 95 degree heat here, the "good" characterization may be up for debate).
For those keeping track, we're running about an hour ahead - we were originally scheduled to gather at 6:15p.



September 4, 202317:14

In-town WH Pool #3: M1 wheels down, no remarks from POTUS
M1 touched down on the South Lawn at 5:09pm.
POTUS emerged a few moments later and walked directly into the residence. Though he smiled at your pool, he did not respond to shouted Qs about reports of a Kim Jong Un-Putin meeting or the UAW negotiations.



September 4, 202317:22

In-town WH Pool] #4: Lid
Travel/photo lid issued at 5:18pm via overhead announcement.
That's it for your in-town pool. Enjoy the rest of your Labor Day!




  