
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Governor Mitt Romney today announced that Florida State Senator Steve Oelrich has endorsed his campaign for President of the United States.
"Senator Oelrich has a distinguished record of public service, both in the law enforcement community and now in the Florida Senate," said Governor Romney. "I am thankful for his support and look forward to working with him as we campaign across the Sunshine State, talking to Floridians about the issues that matter the most to them and their families."
Senator Oelrich joins many of his fellow Florida legislators in endorsing Governor Romney's candidacy, including Romney for President Statewide Co-Chairs: Representatives Jennifer Carroll, Anitere Flores and Trey Traviesa. Other legislators serving on Governor Romney's Florida leadership team include: State Senators JD Alexander, Carey Baker and Stephen R. Wise and State Representatives Marti Coley, Don Davis, Michael J. Grant, Alan Hayes, Ed Hooper, Dick Kravitz and Trudi Williams.
"Governor Romney understands that the key to keeping our country safe and prosperous lies in strengthening our military, economy and families," said Senator Oelrich. "I am proud to join so many Floridians in supporting Governor Romney for President, and know we will work hard to share his optimistic vision for America's future with voters from Pensacola to Key West."
The Florida Steering Committee is chaired by former Lieutenant Governor Toni Jennings, former Speakers of the House Allan Bense and John Thrasher, Florida Agriculture and Consumer Services Commissioner Charles Bronson, former Chairman of the Florida Republican Party Al Cardenas and U.S. Congressman Tom Feeney. Additional Co-Chairs include St. Petersburg Mayor Rick Baker, former Representatives Dennis Baxley and Dudley Goodlette, David Griffin, former Florida Secretary of State Glenda Hood and former Senator and Chairman of the Republican Party of Florida Van Poole.
Background On State Senator Steve Oelrich:
State Senator Steve Oelrich Represents Senate District 14, Consisting of Alachua, Bradford, Gilchrist, Union And Parts Of Columbia, Levy, Marion And Putnam Counties. Senator Oelrich was elected to the Florida Senate in 2006, and chairs the Higher Education Committee while also serving on several other committees including the Commerce Committee, Ethics and Elections Committee, Social Responsibility Policy and Calendar Committee, Governmental Operations Committee, Higher Education Appropriations Committee and the Florida Legislative Committee on Intergovernmental Relations. Prior to his election to the Legislature, Senator Oelrich served as the Alachua County Sheriff from 1992-2006. His law enforcement career also includes service in the Florida Department of Law Enforcement and the St. Petersburg Police Department. Senator Oelrich has also served on the Boards of Directors of the National Sheriffs' Association and the United Network for Organ Sharing.
  