
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
James Thomas Abbott, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of five years expiring July 1, 2020, vice Patrick Pizzella, term expired.
Larry Edward André, Jr., of Texas, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Djibouti.
Jeffery Martin Baran, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of five years expiring June 30, 2023. (Reappointment)
Robert Behler, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, Department of Defense, vice J. Michael Gilmore.
James Bridenstine, of Oklahoma, to be Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, vice Charles F. Bolden, Jr., resigned.
Thomas L. Carter, of South Carolina, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organization.
John C. Demers, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice John P. Carlin, resigned.
Michael T. Evanoff, of Arkansas, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Diplomatic Security), vice Gregory B. Starr, resigned.
Nina Marie Fite, of Pennsylvania, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Angola.
Daniel L. Foote, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zambia.
Timothy Gallaudet, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, vice Mark E. Schaefer, resigned.
Mark L. Greenblatt, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Export-Import Bank, vice Osvaldo Luis Gratacos Munet, resigned.
Richard Grenell, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Federal Republic of Germany.
Andrei Iancu, of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, vice Michelle K. Lee, resigned.
Gregory Ibach, of Nebraska, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Regulatory Programs, vice Edward M. Avalos, resigned.
Robert J. Jackson, Jr., of New York, to be a Member of the Securities and Exchange Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 5, 2019, vice Mary Jo White.
Kenneth Ian Juster, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of India.
Colleen Kiko, of North Dakota, to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term of five years expiring July 29, 2022, vice Ernest W. Dubester, term expired.
Adam I. Klein, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman and Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for the remainder of the term expiring January 29, 2018, vice David Medine, resigned.
Adam I. Klein, of the District of Columbia, to be Chairman and Member of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board for a term expiring January 29, 2024. (Reappointment)
W. Robert Kohorst, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Croatia.
Barbara Lee, of Florida, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Seventy-second Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Matthew Z. Leopold, of Florida, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Avi Garbow.
Tom Marino, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice Michael A. Botticelli, resigned.
Cheryl L. Mason, of Virginia, to be Chairman of the Board of Veterans' Appeals for a term of six years, vice James Philip Terry, retired.
Edward Masso, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia.
Edward T. McMullen, Jr., of South Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Swiss Confederation, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Principality of Liechtenstein.
Jonathan F. Mitchell, of Washington, to be Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the United States for the term of five years, vice Paul R. Verkuil, resigned.
Thomas B. Modly, of Maryland, to be Under Secretary of the Navy, vice Janine Anne Davidson.
Emily Webster Murphy, of Missouri, to be Administrator of General Services, vice Denise Turner Roth.
Jennifer Gillian Newstead, of New York, to be Legal Adviser of the Department of State, vice Brian James Egan, resigned.
William Northey, of Iowa, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, vice Michael T. Scuse.
Frederick M. Nutt, of Virginia, to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice David Arthur Mader.
David Dale Reimer, of Ohio, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Mauritius, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Seychelles.
David Ross, of Wisconsin, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Peter Silva Silva, resigned.
Christopher R. Sharpley, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Central Intelligence Agency, vice David B. Buckley, resigned.
Christopher Smith, of New Jersey, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Seventy-second Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Cheryl Marie Stanton, of South Carolina, to be Administrator of the Wage and Hour Division, Department of Labor, vice David Weil, resigned.
Suzanne Israel Tufts, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Keith A. Nelson, resigned.
Stephen Alexander Vaden, of Tennessee, to be General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture, vice Jeffrey Michael Prieto.
Bruce J. Walker, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability), vice Patricia A. Hoffman.
Margaret Weichert, of Georgia, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice Beth F. Cobert.
Eric P. Whitaker, of Illinois, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Niger.
Steven E. Winberg, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy), vice Christopher Smith.
Dean L. Winslow, of Delaware, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Jonathan Woodson, resigned.
David G. Zatezalo, of West Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Mine Safety and Health, vice Joseph A. Main.
  