
    The President today declared a major disaster exists in the State of Louisiana and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Ivan beginning on September 13, 2004, and continuing.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals in the parishes of Jefferson, Lafourche, Orleans, Plaquemines, St. Bernard, St, Charles, St. Tammany, and Terrebonne.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available to State and eligible local governments in the parishes of Assumption, Jefferson, Lafourche, Orleans, Plaquemines, St. Bernard, St, Charles, St. James, St. John the Baptist, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrebonne, and Washington for debris removal and emergency protective measures, including direct Federal assistance, at 100 percent of the total eligible costs for a period of up to 72 hours.
Federal funding is available on a cost-share basis for hazard mitigation measures in the parishes of Ascension, Assumption, Avoyelles, Beauregard, Bossier, Caddo, Concordia, East Baton Rouge, East Feliciana, Grant, Jefferson, Lafayette, Lafourche, Livingston, Orleans, Ouachita, Plaquemines, Rapides, St. Bernard, St, Charles, St. Helena, St. James, St. John the Baptist, St. Martin, St. Tammany, Tangipahoa, Terrebonne, Washington, and West Feliciana.
Representing the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Michael D. Brown, Under Secretary for Emergency Preparedness and Response, Department of Homeland Security, named Sandra Coachman as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected area.
The Agency said that more parishes and additional forms of assistance may be designated as soon as damage surveys can be completed in the affected area.
The Agency said that those who sustained losses in the counties designated for aid to affected individuals and business owners can begin applying for assistance by calling 1-800-621-FEMA(3362), or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will be in operation 24 hours a day, seven days a week until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: FEMA (202) 646-4600.
  