
    After greeting an overflow section that had formed outside, the Vice President participated in a moderated conversation in front of a full house of more than 1,400 students and took questions directly from young leaders
HAMPTON, VA — Vice President Harris kicked off her national "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour yesterday with a high-energy event in front of a full house of more than 1,400 students at Hampton University. After speaking with an overflow crowd that had gathered outside, the Vice President participated in a moderated conversation with actor Terrence J and discussed a range of issues that are impacting young people across the country. She also took questions directly from students who are organizing on the frontlines of these fights, highlighted how the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered for young Americans, and outlined the work ahead.
"With each generation, we must fight for our rights and our freedoms," said Vice President Harris. "Stay active because your country and I are counting on all of you."
Vice President Harris also urged attendees to register to vote and use their voices. "Our young leaders will be told that their vote doesn't matter," she said. "I know that's not true, and so part of why I have embarked on this tour is to highlight our young leaders and to be able to do what I can to share a microphone and the stage to highlight the issues that they are leading on and the issues that concern them."
Local journalists reported that "the energy was palpable" as the line to attend wrapped around the building, and the Hampton University Marching Force, Blue Thunder cheerleading squad, university choir, Divine Nine fraternities and sororities, and student D.J.s gave the Vice President a thundering welcome. She also energized the crowd while talking about how she is leading the fight for fundamental freedoms throughout America.
"I believe there is an intentional, full-on attack against hard-won freedoms and rights," said Vice President Harris. "I'm talking about the freedom to make decisions about your own body and the choices you will make about your future connected with that, the freedom to vote, the freedom to be and love who you love, the freedom to be free from gun violence and the fear of that, the freedom to have opportunity."
Vice President Harris's "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour is a month-long national swing to mobilize thousands of young people in the ongoing fight for fundamental freedoms and rights. She is set to visit around a dozen campuses including Hispanic-serving institutions, community colleges, apprenticeship programs, state schools, and additional HBCUs. Today, the Vice President will be at North Carolina A&T State University in Greensboro, NC before heading to Reading Area Community College in Reading, PA on Tuesday. Tune in to her conversation at WhiteHouse.gov/live
See more about the energy at yesterday's event: 
ABC-13: Hampton University's Ogden Hall is packed and loud, all awaiting the arrival of Vice President Kamala Harris. HU is the first stop of a month-long college campus circuit for the VP across the country.
NBC News: "Energetic crowd awaits @VP Harris at this afternoon's event at @_HamptonU
CNN: "In case anyone doubted, Hampton University is showing out for Vice President Kamala Harris
WTKR: Outside of Ogden Hall, there was a long line of students waiting to get in to see the Vice President earlier Thursday afternoon. It was very busy, students lined up just to try to get a look at the Vice President. Students told News 3 it was standing room only inside.
MSNBC: Students waited in long lines to hear the vice president and also to register to vote
NBC-10: The Hampton University Marching Force is getting ready for Vice President Kamala Harris to arrive for the Fight for our Freedoms college tour.
MeidasTouch: Students at Hampton University are FIRED UP to see VP Kamala Harris.
CNN: "Just a little bit of a line to get into the Kamala Harris college tour event at Hampton University. It's the first stop of her "Fight For Our Freedoms College Tour" to in part get young people to vote.
CBS-3: The energy was palpable with students, faculty and staff getting ready for the vice president's visit.
ABC-13:"RIGHT NOW: Vice President Kamala Harris (@VP) is officially on @_HamptonU.
NBC-10: United States Vice President Kamala Harris has taken the stage
  