
    
  Cruz campaign announces 17 members of Liberty Leaders for Cruz Coalition

HOUSTON, Texas – Presidential candidate U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today announced 17 members of his Liberty Leaders for Cruz coalition from New Hampshire and South Carolina, joining chairman Bob Barr and eight previously announced Iowa Liberty leaders.
Members listed below, all of whom have joined Cruz for President leadership teams in their respective states.
New Hampshire
Rep. Rick Christie, Goffstown
Rep. Christie is known as a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
Barbara and Rep. Guy Comtois, Center Barnstead
The Comtois' are former Ron Paul supporters.  Rep. Comtois is a strong liberty leader in the State House and he and his wife are Belknap County Chairs for Cruz for President
Former Reps. Carol & Lucien Vita, Middleton
The Vitas are former Ron Paul supporters
Rep. Dick Gordon, East Kingston
Rep. Gordon is a former Ron Paul supporter and strong Liberty leader in the State House
Andrew Harris, Epping
Harris is a former Ron Paul supporter
Steve Kenda, North Hampton
Kenda is a small-business owner, prominent Liberty leader in the Granite State, and former candidate for State Senate
Rep. Walter Kolodziej, Windham
Rep. Kolodziej is a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
Paul Marquis, Litchfield
Marquis is a former candidate for State Representative and strong Liberty activist.
Rep. Katherine Prudhomme-O'Brien, Derry
Rep. Prudhomme-O'Brien is a strong Liberty leader in the State House.
Emily O'Neil, Bedford
O'Neil is a former candidate for State Representative, liberty activist, and former Ron Paul supporter.
Pam Smith, Manchester
Smith is a prominent Liberty activist in Manchester
Rep. Len Turcotte, Barrington
Rep. Turcotte is a former Ron Paul supporter and strong Liberty leader in the State House.
South Carolina
Senator Lee Bright, Spartanburg
Sen. Bright endorsed and worked to get Ron Paul elected in 2012 and is a Cruz for President South Carolina Co-Chair
Sherriff Ray Nash, Dorchester
Nash is president of the Low Country Republican Liberty Caucus and a South Carolina Cruz for President Co-Chair
Steven Long, Spartanburg
Long is a South Carolina Liberty Activist and 2012 Ron Paul supporter
Iowa
Shawn Dietz, Hampton
Franklin County Republican Party chairman, 2014 candidate for Iowa State Senate, endorsed by Liberty Iowa and Rand Paul
Tom German,
Ron Paul 2008, 2012 County Chair
Joel Kurtinitis, Des Moines
Kurtinitis is a founding member of Liberty Iowa, and Ron Paul 2012 Regional Director
Kelsey Kurtinitis, Des Moines
Ron Paul 2012 volunteer, pro-life grassroots leader
Crystal McIntyre,
Warren County, Iowa Supervisor
Vance Nordaker,
2012 Ron Paul supporter
Jason Schultz,
District 9 Iowa State Senator, endorsed Ron Paul in 2011
Tony Seliquini,
Campaign for Liberty Precinct Coordinator, 'Voices of Reason' Podcast Founder and Co-host
  