
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 9
The President announced his intention to appoint Gary W. Divine to the National Partnership Council.
The President also announced his intention to appoint Mr. Divine to the Federal Salary Council.
September 10
In the morning, the President traveled to Kansas City, MO. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with Chancellor Helmut Kohl of Germany.
In the afternoon, the President attended a Democratic National Committee luncheon and reception at the Westin Crowne Centre Hotel. Following the reception, he traveled to St. Louis, MO. In the evening, he traveled to Pueblo, CO.
September 11
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Sun City, AZ. In the evening, he traveled to Mountain View, CA, where he attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at a private residence. He then traveled to Fresno, CA.
The President declared a major disaster in West Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Fran and associated heavy rain, high wind, flooding, and slides on September 5-8.
The President declared a major disaster in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Hortense beginning September 9 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Robert S. LaRussa as Assistant Secretary for Import Administration at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to appoint Walker Lee Evey to the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled.
September 12
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Rancho Cucamonga, CA, and then to Santa Monica, CA.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeffrey A. Frankel as a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles Gueli to the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences.
The President announced his intention to appoint Raynard C. Soon to be a member of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Ada Demb, Walter Falcon, and Goro Uehara as members of the Board for International Food and Agricultural Development.
The President announced his intention to appoint Kenneth J. Arrow, Elsa Garmire, and Joan Argetsinger Steitz to the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science.
The President asked the Congress to provide $400 million in emergency funds to fight forest fires and made available $50 million for the temporary housing of flood victims.
The White House announced that the President announced that Ambassador Richard Holbrooke will lead the Presidential delegation to Bosnia to observe the September 14 elections.
September 13
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Adm. Stansfield Turner (Ret.) as a member of the U.S. Naval Academy Board of Visitors.
The President announced his intention to appoint George Newton as member and Chair and Edward Lee Gorsuch II, James A. Palmer, and John Eyres Hobbie as members of the Arctic Research Commission.
The President declared a major disaster in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by flooding associated with Tropical Depression Fran on September 6-8.
  