
    In Pearl, Mississippi today, Mayor Rudy Giuliani discussed his commitment to ensuring that every community in America is prepared for terrorist attacks and natural disasters. Earlier in the day, the Mayor toured the Mississippi Emergency Management Agency with Governor Haley Barbour.
Rudy's commitment calls for measures to empower state and local law enforcement to be "First Preventers" when working to secure our homeland. By reducing bureaucracy and increasing the use of technology, Rudy will modernize the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), while decentralizing the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) by establishing regional directors based on an expanded FEMA regional model to help plan and respond to local disasters. Rudy also will bring greater coordination to DHS in order to effectively secure our nation's borders. At the same time, the Mayor's plan calls for ending wasteful earmarking so funds can go to critical local emergency preparation needs.
"We need less focus on centralized control and waiting for a response to be handed down from Washington, and more on regional response, training and coordination to better assist state and local governments in preparing for and responding to disasters," the Mayor has said. "America faces very real threats in the 21st Century. We can face the future with confidence by becoming a more resilient society."
In addition, the Mayor calls for better emergency preparedness coordination to empower First Responders and making our current preparedness agencies more efficient and effective. Giuliani proposes having the State and Local Government Coordination office report directly to the Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security to encourage real representation for Mayors and Governors. The Mayor's plan also includes expanding emergency management disaster training and using ReadyStat to measure the preparedness needs of American communities.
"Today, every American needs to have a first responder mindset," Mayor Giuliani has said. "My approach to homeland security is based on the core principles of preparation and resilience because while there's no such thing as a perfect response, we can get closer to that ideal with more effective planning."
Earlier today, Mayor Giuliani unveiled his Homeland Security Advisory Board, which is led by former Federal Bureau of Investigations Director Louis Freeh and former Customs and Border Protection Commissioner Robert Bonner, the campaign's Chief Homeland Security Advisor.
Ensuring that every community in America is prepared for terrorist attacks and natural disasters is one of Rudy's Twelve Commitments to the American People, his bold vision aimed at moving America forward. Rudy has traveled the country this summer detailing his Commitments. For more about Rudy's Twelve Commitments, please click here.
  