
    Pool Reports by Michael Collins, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




September 28, 202309:50 MST

Out-of-town pool report #1: Checking in
Good morning from Phoenix, the final stop on the president's trip West.
A quick rundown of today's schedule:
POTUS will deliver remarks at 11:45 am honoring the legacy of Sen. John McCain and working to strengthen democracy. The White House distributed excerpts from his speech this morning, so if you haven't seen them already, check your inbox. His remarks will be streamed on the White House website.
POTUS will attend a campaign reception at 1:45 pm and then depart for Washington at 3 pm.



September 28, 202311:11 MST

Out-of-town pool report #2: Rolling
Motorcade is rolling at 11:09 am to the Tempe Center For The Arts, which is where POTUS will deliver his remarks on democracy.



September 28, 202311:12 MST

Out-of-town pool report #3
From White House::
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to Tempe Center For The Arts:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsJohn McCarthy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorKrystal Ortiz, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Political EngagementRachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach



September 28, 202311:27 MST

Out-of-town pool report #4: Arrival
Motorcade arrived at the Tempe Center For The Arts at 11:23 am.
From the White House:
Participating in a photoline with the President at the Tempe Center For The Arts:
Ambassador Cindy McCain, Executive Director, World Food ProgrammeMayor Corey Woods, Tempe, AZMayor Kate Gallego, Phoenix, AZChairman Robert Miguel, Ak-Chin Indian CommunityGovernor Stephen Lewis, Gila River Indian CommunityPresident Martin Harvier, Salt River Indian CommunityChairman Verlon Jose, Tohono O'odham NationArizona State House Minority Leader Lupe Contreras (22nd District)Arizona State Senate Minority Leader Mitzi Epstein (12th District)Councilmember Berdetta Hodge, City of Tempe, Arizona & Tempe Union School District Board MemberCouncilmember Doreen Garlid, City of Tempe, ArizonaCouncilmember Randy Keating, City of Tempe, Arizona



September 28, 202312:44 MST

Out-of-town pool report #5: Some color
A reminder that the president's remarks will be streamed on the White House website, so I won't be sending quotes from the speech.
Some color:
The venue is an auditorium with three tiers of seating. From our vantage part, it's hard to say how full the auditorium is. Your pooler has asked the White House how many people were invited and will pass that info along if/when I get an answer.
POTUS will be speaking from a stage with America flags behind him.
One note: Wifi inside the auditorium is spotty, so it will be difficult to send pool reports during the speech.



September 28, 202312:45 MST

Out-of-town pool report #6: POTUS speaks
POTUS was introduced by Cindy McCain and took the stage at 12:05 pm.
A heckler interrupted the speech about 10 minutes after POTUS started speaking. It was hard to hear what he said, but it sounded like he was asking why the president hasn't declared a climate emergency.
"If you shush up, I will meet with you immediately after this," POTUS said before resuming his remarks.
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 12:40 pm.
One note: Your pooler sent pool report #5 before POTUS entered the auditorium, but Wi-Fi is spotty, so I'm not sure it was delivered. Checking.



September 28, 202312:52 MST

Out-of-town pool report #6(a)
Passing along this note from the White House, which, thanks to spotty Wifi, we received after POTUS had wrapped up his remarks.
The President is delivering remarks honoring the legacy of Senator John McCain, and the work we must do together to strengthen our democracy.
Pre-ProgramKatie Hobbs, Governor of Arizona
Speaking ProgramAmbassador Cindy McCainThe President



September 28, 202312:52 MST

Out-of-town pool report #7: Rolling to next event
Motorcade is rolling to the next event, a campaign reception, at 12:49 pm.



September 28, 202313:13 MST

Out-of-town pool report #8: Reception arrival
Motorcade arrived at 1:06. pm at a private residence in Phoenix for the campaign reception.
On behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President is attending a campaign reception at the home of Roberta and Jim Pederson.
Speaking ProgramJim PedersonMayor Kate Gallego, Phoenix, AZThe President



September 28, 202313:15 MST

Out-of-town pool report #9: Protester
For those who have inquired, the pool has asked whether POTUS met with the heckler. Awaiting a response.



September 28, 202313:40 MST

Out-of-town pool report #10: Crowd estimate
More than 550 people attended POTUS's speech on democracy, the White House says.



September 28, 202313:50 MST

Out-of-town pool report #11: Protester update
The White House says the president hasn't yet met with the climate protester.
It's unclear to pool if he will.



September 28, 202314:34 MST

Out-of-town pool report #12: POTUS remarks and departure
Guests at the campaign reception are gathered underneath a white tent set up on a well-manicured lawn at the back of the house, next to the swimming pool. It's sunny and 98 degrees.
POTUS, wearing a dark suit and his aviators, was introduced to the audience at 1:34 pm. He took off his suit jacket and began his remarks at 1:48 pm.
In the audience: Brittney Griner, who POTUS acknowledged at the start of his remarks.
POTUS' audio was muddled, so it was hard to hear what he said. He talked about his record of creating jobs, about Trump's "very good people" response to Charlottesville and about Putin, who he said "does not have a democratic bone in his body."
At one point, Biden stepped away from his podium and walked underneath the tent, closer to the crowd, where he continued his remarks.
Speaking of Trump's visit to Michigan on Wednesday, he said:
"This guy, the argument he's making now about autoworkers is 'Biden's your problem because Biden wants to have electric vehicles."
Biden made the sign of the cross.
"I'm serious, that's what he's saying. That's the argument.
"The idea he goes to a union hall — not a union hall, it's management — and he pays them to hold up signs saying they're union members? Come on!
"The rest of the world's looking. And I'm going to try like hell not to let you down."
He was still speaking and had started taking questions from the audience when the pool was ushered back to the vans at 2:11 pm.
We are rolling to the airport at 2:30 pm.



September 28, 202314:48 MST

Out-of-town pool report #13: Airport arrival
Motorcade arrived at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport at 2:42 pm.
POTUS immediately boarded AF1 without taking questions.
We are wheels up shortly for JBA.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingEmmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Political Strategy & OutreachBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsJohn McCarthy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorRachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach



September 28, 202321:36 EDT

Out-of-town pool report #14: JBA arrival
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 9:33 pm.
There were no visitors to the press cabin during the flight.



September 28, 202321:54 EDT

Out-of-town pool report #15: Marine One departure
POTUS walked down AF1's lower flight of stairs at 9:43 pm.
He headed immediately to Marine One, which was wheels up at 9:52 pm.
From the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Handing off to in-town pool.
A special thanks to co-pooler Lauren Egan of Politico for her much-needed assist in putting together these pool reports.
And with that, this pooler is signing off for the evening.
Goodnight, everybody.




 
Pool Reports below by Alexander Nazaryan, Yahoo News 



Sent:
Reports:




September 28, 202321:51

In-Town Pool Report #1: Gather
Press pool gathered at 9:48 p.m. for the president's return to the White House. At 9:49 pm, the pool made its way to the South Lawn.



September 28, 202322:05

In-Town Pool Report #2: Landing
Marine One landed on the South Lawn at 10:04 pm.



September 28, 202322:10

In-Town Pool Report #3: South Lawn
President Biden emerged from Marine One and crossed the South Lawn at 10:07 pm, acknowledging the press pool but not taking any of the questions shouted his way as he entered the White House.



September 28, 202322:12

In-Town Pool Report #4: Lid
Has been called.




  