
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Whereas the best hope for the future of any country rests with its children; and
Whereas it is imperative that each child in this land be afforded the opportunity to develop to the full extent of his individual potential capabilities; and
Whereas it is our obligation as a Nation to make every reasonable effort to provide our children with the best possible physical and mental health care so that they will have a meaningful opportunity to develop their full potential; and
Whereas we have the resources and the incentive to give our children constantly improving medical care as a result of the unprecedented advances that are being made in scientific, medical, and social attainments; and
Whereas the observance of a special day emphasizing child health serves effectively to underscore these goals; and
Whereas the Congress, by a joint resolution of May 18, 1928, 45 Stat. 617, as amended by a joint resolution of September 22, 1959, 73 Stat. 627 (36 U.S.C. 143), requested the President of the United States to issue annually a proclamation setting apart the first Monday in October as Child Health Day; and
Whereas Child Health Day is also an appropriate time to observe a Universal Children's Day and to salute the work which the United Nations, through its specialized agencies, and the United Nations Children's Fund are doing to build better health for children around the world:
Now, Therefore, I, Lyndon B. Johnson, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Monday, October 4, 1965, as Child Health Day; and I invite all persons and all agencies and organizations interested in the health and welfare of children to unite on that day in observances that will bolster our efforts to foster their growth into full participants in our society.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the Seal of the United States of. America to be affixed.
DONE at the City of Washington this twenty-ninth day of September in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and sixty-five, and of the Independence of the United States of America the one hundred and ninetieth.

LYNDON B. JOHNSON
By the President:
GEORGE W. BALL
Acting Secretary of State
  