
    The Clinton Campaign announced today the endorsement of Maryland Lieutenant Governor Anthony G. Brown.
"Hillary Clinton has the experience, the ideas and the strength to lead America along the path of progress," Brown said. "She is the best candidate to restore our standing with our global allies, to support our soldiers at home and abroad, and to improve the quality of life for all Americans."
Recognized by Newsweek as one of the leaders of a "new generation" of African American political figures, Brown is seen by many from across the nation to be a rising star in the Democratic Party. He currently serves as the Chair of the National Lieutenant Governors Association Southern Executive Committee.
"Anthony has served our country with distinction as a soldier and a statesman, and I'm honored to have his support," Clinton said. "With his help, we will continue to grow our grassroots support and bring our message of change across Maryland and the nation."
Brown, a graduate of both Harvard College and Harvard Law School, is a 24 year veteran of the United States Army and Army Reserves. While on active duty, Brown served as a helicopter pilot in Germany. Brown still serves in the Army Reserves, having completed tours in Panama and Canada. In 2005, Brown deployed to Iraq and served with distinction in Baghdad, Fallujah, Kirkuk and Basra. Earlier this year, Brown was selected for promotion to Colonel.
In 1998, Brown was elected to the Maryland House of Delegates and rose to positions of leadership, including Vice Chairman of the Judiciary Committee and Majority Whip. As a member of the House of Delegates, Brown established himself as a leader on veterans' and foster care issues.
In January 2007, Governor O'Malley tasked the newly-inaugurated Lieutenant Governor Brown with the chairmanship of the Governor's Subcabinet on Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC). The Subcabinet is leading the State's preparation for the arrival of 60,000 jobs and 28,000 households to Maryland because of the BRAC decisions of 2005.
Brown joins several other prominent Maryland leaders in his support of Sen. Clinton, including Governor Martin O'Malley, Senator Barbara Mikulski and Congressman Dutch Ruppersberger.
  