
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, designate one individual, and appoint eight individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Paul A. Quander, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be Director of the Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia, for a term of six years. Mr. Quander previously served as Director of Court Services and Offender Supervision Agency for the District of Columbia. Prior to this he served as Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Columbia. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Director of the District of Columbia Department of Corrections. Mr. Quander received his bachelor's degree from Virginia State University and his JD from Howard University.
The President intends to nominate F. Chase Hutto III, of Michigan, to be Assistant Secretary of Energy (International Affairs and Domestic Policy). Mr. Hutto currently serves as Deputy Assistant to the Vice President for Domestic Policy. He previously served as Director of International Energy on the National Security Council at the White House. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Policy Advisor to the Secretary of Energy. Mr. Hutto received both his bachelor's and his JD from University of Michigan.
The President intends to designate Karthik Ramanathan, of the District of Columbia, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Financial Markets).
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board, for the remainder of four-year terms expiring 04/19/10:
Mark D. Abkowitz, of Tennessee;
Thure E. Cerling, of Utah;
David J. Duquette, of New York;
Ronald Michael Latanision, of Massachusetts.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the National Council on the Arts:
Chas Fagan of North Carolina, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/03/14;
JoAnn Falletta of New York, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/03/12;
Lee Greenwood of Tennessee, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/03/14;
Barbara Ernst Prey of New York, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 09/03/14.
  