
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 7
The President returned to the White House from Camp David, Md.
September 8
The President met at the White House with:
—Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs;
—members of the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale;
—officers of the National Rural Electric Cooperative Association.
The President declared a major disaster for the State of Michigan as a result of severe thunderstorms and high winds, during the period July 15-20, which caused extensive property damage.
September 9
The President met at the White House with Dr. Brzezinski.
The President transmitted to the Congress the 15th annual report of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
September 10
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Mr. Moore;
—members of the New York Democratic congressional delegation;
—leaders of environmental groups and Secretary of the Interior Cecil D. Andros, Douglas M. Costle, Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and Gus Speth, Chairman of the Council on Environmental Quality;
—Felix Rohatyn, former chairman of the New York Municipal Assistance Corporation.
September 11
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Archbishop Jean Jadot, who is returning to the Vatican after serving as the Apostolic Delegate to the United States;
—Mrs. Carter, for lunch.
September 12
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Vice President Mondale, Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Jack H. Watson, Jr., Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore.
The President transmitted to the Congress the third annual reports on the status of health information and health promotion.
  