
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona, to be Secretary of the Air Force, vice Heather Wilson.
Rahkel Bouchet, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice John Ramsey Johnson, retired.
Sandra E. Clark, of Maryland, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Burkina Faso.
Owen McCurdy Cypher, of Michigan, to be United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Michigan for the term of four years, vice Robert Maynard Grubbs, term expired.
Kelly C. Degnan, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Georgia.
David M. DeVillers, of Ohio, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio for the term of four years, vice Carter M. Stewart, resigned.
Jodi W. Dishman, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, vice Vicki Miles-LaGrange, retired.
Peter M. Haymond, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Lao People's Democratic Republic.
Thomas L. Leonard III, of Michigan, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Michigan for the term of four years, vice Patrick A. Miles, Jr., term expired.
Karen Spencer Marston, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, vice Legrome D. Davis, retired.
Ryan McCarthy, of Illinois, to be Secretary of the Army, vice Mark T. Esper, resigned.
Steven J. Menashi, of New York, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice Dennis G. Jacobs, retired.
Richard Earnest Myers II, of North Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of North Carolina, vice Malcolm J. Howard, retired.
Sarah E. Pitlyk, of Missouri, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Missouri, vice Catherine D. Perry, retired.
Robert John Sander, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of the Navy, vice Paul Luis Oostburg Sanz.
Anuraag Singhal, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Florida, vice James I. Cohn, retired.
Ralph Ignatius Sozio, of New York, to be United States Marshal for the Southern District of New York for the term of four years, vice Michael Greco, term expired.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Michael J. Astrue, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2022, vice Alan L. Cohen, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on January 16, 2019.
Mina Chang, of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Jonathan Nicholas Stivers, which was sent to the Senate on January 16, 2019.
  