
    To the Congress of the United States:
I transmit herewith for the consideration of the Congress a report entitled "United States Civil Defense", which has been submitted to me by the Chairman of the National Security Resources Board.
This report provides a set of suggested guide posts for States and local communities, who have the principal responsibility for organizing and training the many types of specialized groups needed to cope with the potential damage of devastating modern weapons.
This report also sets forth a basic plan for the Federal Government's part in the national civil defense effort, and recommends Federal civil defense legislation and the establishment of a Civil Defense Administration.
I believe this report presents a sound and workable outline of the civil defense problems we face, and what the Federal, State, and local governments should do to meet them. I urge the members of the Congress to consider this report carefully over the next few weeks as a basis for the enactment of legislation in the near future.
Copies of the report are also being transmitted to each Governor, and to the mayors of our larger cities. I urge them to give the report their early attention so that the States and local communities will be prepared to move ahead rapidly with their own plans.
In the meantime, I intend to establish a temporary Civil Defense Administration, which will carry forward the civil defense work until permanent legislation is enacted by the Congress, and which will provide a central point of leadership for State and local efforts.
As this report makes clear, the civil defense of the United States in the event of emergency will be of the greatest importance. The organization of an effective civil defense system involves many difficult problems. It will require the combined, unselfish work of all units of Government and many hundreds of thousands of private citizens. I am sure that everyone concerned will approach his part of the preparedness task with the spirit of initiative and cooperation which are characteristic of our free society.
HARRY S. TRUMAN
  