
    Pool Reports by Courtney Subramanian, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 2, 202310:54

In-town pool report #1 - Gathering
Good morning from the White House on this sunny Saturday.
We're gathering for POTUS and FLOTUS' departure for Live Oak, Florida, where they are due to survey the damage caused by Hurricane Idalia. Following the trip to Florida, POTUS and FLOTUS will head to Rehoboth Beach for the holiday weekend.
Today's full schedule below. Please reach out with any questions.
10:55 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart the White House en route to Joint Base AndrewsSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 10:45 AM – Stakeout Location)
11:15 AM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Joint Base AndrewsJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
12:00 PM Supplemental Pool Call TimeStakeout Location
1:05 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive in Gainesville, FloridaGainesville Regional Airport, Gainesville, FloridaOut-of-Town Pool
1:20 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY receive an aerial tour of storm-impacted areas en route to Live Oak, FloridaOut-of-Town Pool
2:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive in Live Oak, FloridaSuwannee County Airport Landing Zone, Live Oak, FloridaOut-of-Town Pool
2:25 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY participate in a briefing on response and recovery efforts and meet with federal personnel, local officials, and first respondersSuwannee Pineview Elementary, Live Oak, FloridaOut-of-Town Pool
3:50 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY tour a community impacted by Hurricane IdaliaLive Oak, FloridaOut-of-Town Pool
4:15 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks reaffirming his commitment to supporting the people of Florida; THE FIRST LADY attendsLive Oak, FloridaOut-of-Town Pool
6:05 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Gainesville, Florida en route to Dover, DelawareGainesville Regional AirportOut-of-Town Pool
8:15 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY depart Dover, Delaware en route to Rehoboth Beach, DelawareDover Air Force BaseOut-of-Town Pool 
8:35 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY arrive in Rehoboth Beach, DelawareRehoboth Beach, DelawareSupplemental Pool



September 2, 202311:13

In-town pool report #2 - comments on DeSantis
POTUS and FLOTUS emerged from the residence at 11:09 am ET. He paused briefly to answer one shouted question.
Asked what happened with the meeting with Gov DeSantis, POTUS replied, "I don't know. He's not going to be there."
He did not respond to a follow up question and boarded Marine One at 11:10 am.



September 2, 202311:18

In-town pool report #3 - Marine One lifts
Marine One lifted for JBA at 11:14 am.
Per WH: Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security Advisor
Handing off to out-of-town pool.



September 2, 202312:06

In-town pool report #4 - AF1 gaggle
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell is gaggling aboard Air Force One.
You can stream here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/




 
Pool Reports below by Jeff Mordock, The Washington Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 2, 202310:37

Out-of-Town Pool Report #1 — Checking In
Greetings from a late summer Saturday in Washington DC. POTUS is headed to Florida this morning to tour the Hurricane Idalia devastation.
Your pool has been tested and swept and awaiting POTUS arrival at JBA.
Passing along from WH — FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell will do a gaggle on AF1.



September 2, 202311:31

Out of Town Pool Report — #2 JBA arrival POTUS speaks
M1 carrying POTUS and FLOTUS landed at JBA at 11:22 and taxied to AF1 at 11:24.
POTUS as he boarded wearing navy blue pants, blue shirt and dark jacket. He did not have a tie. FLOTUS was wearing a powder blue and white striped dress.
On DeSantis "I don't think he's going to be there we are going to take care of Florida."
On whether he agrees with DeSantis that security couldn't support a POTUS visit, Biden laughed, smiled and said "do you?"
They exited M1 at 11:26 and boarded AF1 at 11:28.
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:
Colonel Angela Ochoa, 89th Air Wing, Joint Base Andrews



September 2, 202311:39

Out of Town Pool Report #3 — Wheels Up
AF1 wheels up at 11:39.
Note we are taking the smaller AF1 to Gainesville, FL so WI-FI isn't as solid as it as on the bigger plane.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route to Gainesville Regional Airport:
Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management AgencyBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretarySheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterRachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach



September 2, 202313:17

Out of Town Pool Report #4 — Wheels down
AF1 Wheels down at Gainesville Regional Airport at 1:10.
FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell did a roughy 20 minute gaggle on AF1. It was live-streamed but a few highlights.
- WH and DeSantis' team mutually agreed upon location for POTUS visit earlier this week.
-No Security or operational concerns raised at that time and since then no state or local officials have raised any.
-DeSantis team did not give any more detailed reasons for why he declined to show up and did not tell Administrator Criswell before going public.
-Live Oak was specifically chosen for POTUS visit because of lack of operational impact. Administrator Criswell said area is already on road to recovery.
Special thanks to Adam Cancryn of Politico for helping me catch some notes on a very difficult to hear gaggle.



September 2, 202313:24

Out of Town Pool Report #5 — Gainesville arrival
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off AF1 at 1:20. They chatted briefly with the greeters and posed for photos with them. POTUS did not take any questions.
They entered the helicopter to head to live oak at 1:23.
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Gainesville Regional Airport:
Harvey Ward, Mayor of GainesvilleAnna Prizzia, Alachua County ChairChief Eugene Keith Davis, Chief of Police, City of Live Oak



September 2, 202314:18

Out of Town Pool Report # 6 — Live Oak arrival
POTUS completed his aerial tour of the storm impacted areas.
His helicopter touched down at the Suwannee Regional Airport in Live Oak Fla at 2:09. POTUS and FLOTUS exited the helicopter at 2:13.
The limo and the security vehicles pulled in between the pool and POTUS/FLOTUS making it difficult to see them enter the limo.
The pool traveled ahead of POTUS in an osprey. We didn't lay eyes on POTUS during his aerial tour or see much of the impacted area bc of the lack of windows in the osprey.
Two notes per WH
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Suwannee County Airport Landing Zone:
Frank Davis, Mayor of Live OakAmanda Davis, Spouse of Mayor DavisFranklin White, Suwannee County Chair
Joining the President and the First Lady for an aerial tour of storm-impacted areas en route to Live Oak, Florida:
Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management AgencyBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorChief Eugene Keith Davis, Chief of Police, City of Live Oak



September 2, 202314:21

Out of Town Pool Report #7 -/ Rolling
The motorcade is rolling at 2:20 to Suwanee Pineview Elementary School, Live Oak, FL where POTUS will attend a briefing with first responders and local officials.



September 2, 202314:31

Out of Town Pool Report #8 — Arrival
Motorcade arrived at Suwanee Pineview Elementary School, Live Oak, FL at 2:30
It was an uneventful motorcade ride. Your pooler spotted one person waving a "Let's Go Brandon" flag. Other bystanders just photographed or videoed the motorcade without expressing an opinion.
Lots of tree limbs, branches and signs knocked down on motorcade route, including some very big trees. A testament to the hurricane's power.



September 2, 202315:20

Out of Town Pool Report #9 - POTUS remarks at meeting
Apologize for the lateness. There was no WI-FI in the elementary school.
Your pool did not see POTUS and FLOTUS enter the school for the briefing.
As your pool was escorted into the room ahead of POTUS and FLOTUS remarks, we passed families and individuals displaced by the storm laying on beds in the hallway.
Rick Scott is attending the briefing. He was wearing a hat with Navy on the front and 45 on the back, which the pool believes is a likely reference to former President Trump.
As POTUS entered Sen. Scott thanked POTUS for coming and POTUS responded, "Thank you for having me."
Sen Scott said POTUS did "a great job with the early preparation" by declaring an federal disaster declaration.
"It was a big people deal. These are not rich communities. Many of them struggle. Big deal. I want to thank you for doing that very quickly," Sen. Scott.
POTUS responded by thanking Sen. Scott.
"I want to thank the senator. He gave me all the information I needed. I told him we are here for as long as it takes.
FLOTUS how officials how they were handling school opening. A local official (unsure who) said they were being delayed by a couple of weeks.
Frank Davis, Mayor of Live Oak
"Thank you so much for coming and shining a light on what's happening here," he said, adding "You were so quick to declare a disaster area.
Mayor Davis noted the presence of FLOTUS
"When you bring your wife, you know it's important," he said.
Live Oak Fire Chief Hayes (your pooler did not catch the first name) gave POTUS a brief update on the search and rescue efforts.
He said the search and rescue in the county was 90% complete last night and 100 percent complete last night. He added that utilities in the area are 100 percent thanks to a back up generator.
"God made man and then he made a few fighters," POTUS said.
POTUS, FLOTUS and Sen. Scott then walked to a line of state, local and federal first responders to thank them and shake hands.



September 2, 202315:21

Out of Town Pool Report 10 — meeting with impacted families
POTUS and FLOTUS met with families impacted by the Hurricane. They immediately walked to a woman with a crying baby to talk with them.
They entered the room at 3:15
The pool was set up several feet away and were unable to hear what POTUS and FLOTUS told the families. Your pooler could see them shaking hands and signing autographs.
The meeting took place in a separate room at the Suwannee Elementary School.
The pool is being escorted out of the school at 3:20.



September 2, 202315:34

Out of Town Pool Report #11 — briefing attendees
Here are attendees for today's briefing, including the fire chief's first name which was missing from my last pool report.
The President and the First Lady are participating in a briefing on response and recovery efforts.
ParticipantsSenator Rick Scott (FL)Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
Frank Davis, Mayor of Live OakAmanda Davis, Spouse of Mayor DavisFranklin White, Suwannee County ChairChief Eugene Keith Davis, Chief of Police, City of Live OakChief Sidney Hayes, Fire Chief, City of Live OakActing Regional Administrator Robert Samaan, FEMAFederal Coordinating Officer Brett Howard, FEMA



September 2, 202315:36

Out of Town Pool Report #12 — Rolling
Motorcade rolling to our next destination at 3:34. Out next destination is the walking tour of Live Oak.
Your pooler did not see POTUS or FLOTUS exit the elementary school.



September 2, 2023
[APP Note: Report #13 does not exist or was not received by the APP. Note also that this reporter provided two reports numbered 21.]


September 2, 202315:41

Out of Town Pool Report 14 -Arrival
The Moro are arrived at the Live Oak neighborhood for a walking tour at 3:41.



September 2, 202316:04

Out of Town Pool Report #15 — walking tour
POTUS and FLOTUS exited the limo at 3:44 in a Live Oak neighborhood heavily damaged by the storm.
Administrator Criswell and Live Oak Mayor gave POTUS a tour of the neighborhood.
POTUS walked over to a family they had a long tree crash in their front lawn. The pool was positioned too far away from POTUS to hear the conversation. He did squat to talk to a child at the home.
POTUS began his remarks at 3:56. He spoke in front of a house where a tree crashed through it.
He noted that he's "been in touch" with Gov DeSantis.
Some POTUS quotes
"My mother used to have an expression. 'But for the grace of God.' Can you imagine? A tree falling through your house? Can you imagine."
POTUS noted that the tree fell less than 10 feet from a bedroom where someone was at the time of the crash.
He noted it was the strongest winds in FLA in 100 years. "Pray God. It will be 100 years before it happens again."
 



September 2, 202316:19

Out of Town Pool Report #16 — Jacksonville remarks questions
POTUS noted the Jacksonvillle mass shooting last week, calling it a "terrorist act."
"Domestic terrorism will not prevail in America. Silence is complicity. We must not. We will not remain silent," POTUS.
POTUS said he'd have much more to say on this issue later.
POTUS took questions on East Palestine, Ohio, Gov DeSantis declining to attend and FEMA funding.
On DeSantis
-"I'm not disappointed. He may have had other reasons." POTUS said he was "pleased" Rick Scott.
On East Palestine Ohio
POTUS said he was "thinking of going this week" but was reminded he has the G20.
On FEMA
POTUS he said "he can't imagine" Congress not funding FEMA
POTUS also took one question off camera about the death of New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson.
"He was a good friend," POTUS said.



September 2, 202316:24

Out of Town Pool Report #17 — Correction
Two corrections to Pool Report #9. Your pooler dropped a word in a Biden quote. Also note search rescue was a 100% complete this morning. Corrections in bold
He said the search and rescue in the county was 90% complete last night and 100 percent complete this morning. He added that utilities in the area are 100 percent thanks to a back up generator.
"God made man and then he made a few firefighters," POTUS said.
Your pooler regrets the errors.



September 2, 202316:41

Out of Town Pool Report #18 — Rolling
POTUS and FLOTUS entered the limo at 4:33. They spent about 20 minutes talking to Live Oak residents, posing for photos and signing autographs.
The motorcade is rolling at 4:35 to Suwannee County Airport in Live Oak. We will hello there to Gainesville airport,



September 2, 202316:44

Out of Town Pool Report #19 — Arrival
The motorcade arrived at Suwannee Airport at 4:42. The pool is marching to our osprey and did not witness POTUS and FLOTUS board their helicopter.



September 2, 202317:08

Out of Town Pool Report #20 — Travelers
Per WH
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Gainesville Regional Airport:
Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady



September 2, 202317:23

Out of Town Pool Report #21 — Gainesville arrival
The helicopter carrying POTUS and FLOTUS landed at Gainesville Airport at 5:18.
They exited the helicopter at 5:22 and boarded AF1 at 5:23
POTUS did not take questions from reporters ahead of boarding AF1. FLOTUS was carrying a water bottle as she boarded. POTUS also ditched his sport coat but was wearing a hat.
We are off to Dover shortly.
Per WH
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Air Force One en route to Dover Air Force Base:
Administrator Deanne Criswell, Federal Emergency Management AgencyBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First LadyLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential SpeechwriterRachel Chiu, Special Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff for the Office of Political Strategy & Outreach



September 2, 202317:34

Out of Town Pool Report 21 — wheels up
Wheels up at 5:31



September 2, 202319:11

Out of Town Pool Report #22 - Wheels down and a hat clarification
AF1 Wheels down at 7:10.
Also a Clarification to Pool Report #9
Sen. Scott's team says the 45 on his hat was NOT a Trump reference but rather a reference to his position as Florida's 45th governor.



September 2, 202319:27

Out of Town Pool Report #23 — Dover arrival
POTUS and FLOTUS stepped off AF1 at 7:19
They boarded the helicopter at 7:21
Helicopter wheels up for Rehoboth at 7:27.
POTUS didn't not take any questions.
Kicking it off to the Rehoboth pool, but before o do, a huge thank you to Adam Cancryn of Politico and Tamara Keith of NPR. Both were invaluable with their help today, especially Adam helping me catch quotes.
It was a pleasure being your pooler.
Per WH
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at Dover Air Force Base:
Colonel Russell "Rusty" Gohn, 436th Air Wing, Dover Air Force Base



September 2, 202319:29

Out of Town Pool Report #24 — Travelers
Not quite done yet. Here is who is traveling with POTUS.
Traveling with the President and the First Lady aboard Marine One en route to Gordon's Pond Landing Zone:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsAnthony Bernal, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the First Lady
Now kicking it off to Rehoboth pool.




 
Pool Reports below by Aurelia End, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




September 2, 202319:56

Supplemental Pool Report #1 - Arrival at Gordon's Pond
Hello from Rehoboth on a lovely breezy evening.
Dusk was falling as Marine One landed at 7:47 pm.
The president exited at 7:50 pm, followed by the First Lady.
They went to their car and at 7:51 pm the motorcade drove away.
You pool did not join the motorcade.
We were positioned far away, behind a strip of bushes and reeds, and could not shout questions.



September 2, 202320:03

Supplemental pool report #2 - Lid
At 8:00 pm we have a lid.
Have a great evening.




  