
    BURLINGTON, Vt. – With turnout projections mounting, U.S. Sen. Bernie Sanders' campaign has shifted locations of town meetings in Grinnell and Cedar Rapids. The Democratic Party presidential candidate is scheduled to make stops in Grinnell, Ottumwa, Burlington, Muscatine, the Meskwaki Nation in Tama, Cedar Rapids and Altoona.
Here is the updated itinerary:
Thursday, September 3
2 p.m.
Grinnell Town Meeting, Central Park, Grinnell
Doors open at 1:30 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
5 p.m.
Ottumwa Campaign Headquarters Opening, 105 N. Court Street, Ottumwa
7:30 p.m.
Burlington Town Meeting, Livestock Arena, Des Moines County Fairgrounds, West Burlington
Doors open at 6:30 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
Friday, September 4
9:30 a.m.
Muscatine Latino Roundtable, Muscatine County Boxing Club, 417 Grandview Ave., Muscatine
This event is invite-only.
Información en español
2 p.m.
Meskwaki Nation Town Meeting, Meskwaki Tribal Center, 349 Meskwaki Road, Tama
Doors open at 1 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
5 p.m.
Cedar Rapids Informational Picket at Penford, 1001 — 1st Street SW, Cedar Rapids
Sponsored by: Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain Millers International Union (Local 100g), Hawkeye Labor Council, Iowa City Federation of Labor
7 p.m.
Cedar Rapids Town Meeting, Coe College, The Quad, Cedar Rapids
Doors open at 6 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. Admission is first come, first served. Tickets are not required, but an RSVP is strongly encouraged.
Saturday, September 5
11 a.m.
Press Availability, Prairie Meadows Conference Center, 1 Prairie Meadows Drive, Altoona
Note: This availability directly follows an AFSCME Iowa town hall. The town hall is CLOSED PRESS.
Press registration can be found here.
  