
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The United Nations rose from the ashes of the Second World War. As we observe another United Nations Day on October 24, 1981, we are thankful that the world has since been spared another major conflagration.
The United Nations has assisted in bringing stability to troubled areas and will surely do so again. United Nations peacekeeping forces are on duty in the volatile Middle East and have contributed to maintaining the peace in other places.
The problems addressed in this world forum are diverse, and the United Nations cannot resolve all matters it considers. But it has helped. This year it held a major conference for the purpose of pledging assistance to refugees in Africa. The United States made a substantial pledge, consistent with our historic support for United Nations refugee programs.
The United Nations is the world's meeting place. It brings together representatives of virtually all countries to discuss a multitude of subjects. These meetings afford opportunities for bilateral discussions, often at a high level, as an extra benefit. Today, much of the world's diplomacy takes place under the aegis of the United Nations.
The United States will continue to play a prominent role and champion the values and ideals that originally inspired the United Nations. We will further those activities that strengthen the capacity of the institution to serve the good of mankind.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Saturday, October 24, 1981, as United Nations Day. I urge all Americans to use this day as an opportunity to better acquaint themselves with the activities and accomplishments of the United Nations.
I have appointed Mr. Robert Anderson to serve as 1981 United States National Chairman for United Nations Day, and welcome the role of the United Nations Association of the United States of America in working with him to celebrate this special day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 28th day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightyone, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixth.

RONALD REAGAN
  