
    "This morning's state unemployment report is further proof that President Obama's economic policies have failed. I unveiled my jobs plan earlier this month in Nevada, a state that has now seen its unemployment rate rise to 13.4%. It is clear that President Obama isn't working for Nevada or the rest of the country. At next month's debate in Las Vegas, I look forward to discussing my comprehensive plan to create jobs and get our economy moving again." –Mitt Romney
Thirty-Eight Of Fifty States Saw Unemployment Rise Or Stay Flat In August:

The Unemployment Rate Increased In Twenty-Six States Last Month While An Additional Twelve States Saw No Change. "Twenty-six states and the District of Columbia reported unemployment rate increases, 12 states recorded rate decreases, and 12 states had no rate change, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today. In August, nonfarm payroll employment decreased in 30 states..." (Bureau of Labor Statistics, Press Release, 9/16/11)


Nevada – Which Already Had The Highest Unemployment Rate In The Country – Saw Its Jobless Rate Rise From 12.9% To 13.4%. (Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 9/16/11)
  


In President Obama's Home State Of Illinois, The Unemployment Rate Increased From 9.5% To 9.9%. (Bureau of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 9/16/11)
  

The Jobs Report Is This Week's Latest Indicator That President Obama's Policies Have Failed:

Consumer Confidence Remains Dangerously Low As Nine In Ten Americans Have A Negative View Of The Economy. "The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index was minus 49.3 in the period to Sept. 11, near this year's low of minus 49.4 reached in May. ... Nine of every 10 Americans polled had a negative view on the economy as the job market stagnated and wages failed to keep up with inflation..." ("U.S. Consumer Confidence Holds At Year's Second-Lowest Level, Index Shows," Bloomberg, 9/15/11)
  


"Crisis Of Confidence..." "'The crisis of confidence among consumers in the economy and policy makers' ability to alter the direction of the economy has diminished chances of a sustained recovery,' said Joseph Brusuelas, a senior economist at Bloomberg LP in New York." ("U.S. Consumer Confidence Holds At Year's Second-Lowest Level, Index Shows," Bloomberg, 9/15/11)
  


Manufacturing Activity In The Mid-Atlantic And Northeast Continues To Contract. "Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region contracted for a second straight month in September as sales deteriorated. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia's general economic index improved to minus 17.5 from minus 30.7 last month. Economists forecast the gauge would rise to minus 15 ... A Federal Reserve Bank of New York report showed manufacturing in the region contracted at a faster pace in September. The New York Fed's general economic index dropped to minus 8.8, the weakest reading since November, from minus 7.7 in August." ("Manufacturing In Philadelphia-Area Contracted In September," Bloomberg, 9/15/11)
  


Nearly 430,000 Americans Filed New Jobless Claims Last Week. "The number of Americans filing new claims for state unemployment aid rose unexpectedly to 428,000 in the week ended September 10, the Labor Department said on Thursday. It was the second straight weekly increase, taking initial claims to their highest level since the week ended June 25." ("Job Market, Factory Data Show Weakness," Reuters, 9/15/11)
  

In The Midst Of A Jobs Crisis In America, Members Of The President's Own Party Don't Believe His "Jobs Plan" Is The Answer:

Sen. Jim Webb (D-VA): "Terrible ... We Shouldn't Increase Taxes On Ordinary Income. ... There Are Other Ways To Get There." (Manu Raju, "Hill Dems Pick Apart Obama Jobs Plan," Politico, 9/14/11)
  


Sen. Mary Landrieu (D-LA): "Maybe It's Just For His Election, Which I Hope Isn't The Case." (Manu Raju, "Hill Dems Pick Apart Obama Jobs Plan," Politico, 9/14/11)
  


Sen. Tom Carper (D-DE): "I Think The Best Jobs Bill That Can Be Passed Is A Comprehensive Long-Term Deficit-Reduction Plan ... That's Better Than Everything Else The President Is Talking About — Combined." (Manu Raju, "Hill Dems Pick Apart Obama Jobs Plan," Politico, 9/14/11)
  

  