
    Des Moines, IA -- US Senator Barack Obama today announced his commitment to follow the presidential nomination process sanctioned by the Democratic National Committee.
Obama signed a pledge written by the Democratic Party Chairs in Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire, and South Carolina saying the process ensured that candidates would be tested by the rigors of a retail political campaign while appropriately incorporating the regional and ethnic diversity of the Democratic Party.
"As I have campaigned across America over the last six months, it's become clear that Governor Dean and the Democratic National Committee have put together a presidential nomination process that's in the best interests of our party and our nation," said Senator Obama. "I look forward to continuing the dialogue with voters and building the kind of grassroots movement in Iowa, Nevada, New Hampshire and South Carolina and the rest of the country that will send a clear signal to Washington that the American people are ready for change."
Obama campaign officials also urged states in danger of violating DNC rules to adjust their plans to comply with the DNC's calendar, so that every state contributes delegates to the nominating process.
"To become the Democratic nominee for president, a candidate must secure a majority of delegates to the national convention," said Obama campaign manager David Plouffe. "Because states that violate DNC rules will not be allowed to contribute to the delegate tally, we urge all states to ensure their compliance with DNC rules so they can participate in our Democratic nominating process. Our campaign will work within the rules established by the DNC to earn the support of Democrats across America and run a grassroots campaign to unite Americans around Senator Obama's commitment to challenging the conventional thinking in Washington."
Next week, Senator Obama will celebrate Labor Day in New Hampshire before kicking off a two-day swing through western Iowa. Obama is scheduled to campaign in Nevada on Thursday.
  