
    President Bush. The President and I just concluded a very constructive meeting. It was constructive because, one, we had a lot to talk about—a lot of interests that we want to work together on—and also because he's an easy man to talk to. I'm very comfortable in my discussions with President Hu.
We talked about Iran and North Korea and Sudan. We talked about climate change and our desire to work together on climate change. We talked about our economic relations and our trade. And the President was quite articulate about product safety, and I appreciated his comments. We also talked about currency and exchange rates. And finally, I had a chance to share once again with the President my belief in religious freedom and religious liberty.
It was a constructive and cordial conversation. And once again, he extended an invitation to me and Laura and our family to come to the Olympics. And of course, I was anxious to accept.
So thank you, Mr. President.
President Hu. President Bush and I had a meeting in a candid and friendly atmosphere. We reviewed the new progress made in China-U.S. relations in the past few months. We discussed a number of issues in our bilateral relations. We both expressed a desire to work for further development and growth of the business and commercial sides between our two countries through dialog and consultations.
We also talked about climate change. We believe that the issue of climate change bears on the welfare of the whole humanity and sustainable development of the whole world. And this issue should be appropriately tackled through stronger international cooperation.
I also briefed the—President Bush on the latest developments in the situation across the Taiwan Straits. President Bush also explicitly stated the U.S. position—consistent U.S. position of opposing any changes to the status quo. We also discussed issues like the nuclear issue on the Korean Peninsula, the Iranian nuclear issue, and Sudan—Darfur.
All in all, our talks have been sincere and cordial. I am committed to working together with President Bush to further advance our constructive and cooperative relations.
President Bush. Thank you.
  