
    Pool Reports by Joey Garrison, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




September 21, 202109:36

White House out-of-town pool report #1 — rolling 
Good morning,
The pool, gathered in a van, left the Intercontinental Barclay Hotel in Manhattan at 9:35 am ET en route to the nearby UN headquarters. It's a 10-minute drive. Biden will give a speech at the the UN General Assembly, scheduled for 10 am ET, followed by a bilateral meeting with Australia Prime Minister Scott Morrison at noon.
Your pooler has not seen Biden this morning.



September 21, 202109:42

White House out-of-town pool report #2 
The motorcade pulled up to the UN headquarters at 9:40 am ET and exited. The pool did not see Biden enter.
According to the WH, Biden was greeted by Beatrix Kania, United Nations Chief of Protocol
Amina J. Mohammed, United Nations Deputy Secretary General



September 21, 202110:04

White House out-of-town pool report #3
President Biden took the stage in Assembly Hall at the UN headquarters for its 76th General Assembly at exactly 10 a.m. ET. He saluted the UN leaders sitting above him.
"It is my honor to speak to you for the first time as the president of the United States," Biden said, calling the decisions ahead for the world a "clear and urgent choice."
The speech is livestreamed at whitehouse.gov/live. As a result, I will not be sending quotes from the speech.
Biden followed Brazil President Jair Bolsonaro, who went to the backstage after his speech. Biden came out separately and the two men did not cross paths on stage.
One thing I failed to note last pool report is the motorcade drove past the Trump World Tower on the way to the UN headquarters. Along East 49th Street, hundreds of people lined the street along fencing with many taking photos of the motorcade from their cell phones.



September 21, 202110:05

White House out-of-town pool report #4
From the White House:
Prior to the President's remarks, he was introduced by Abdulla Shahid, President of the United Nations General Assembly.



September 21, 202110:35

White House out-of-town pool report #5
President Biden finished his UN General Assembly speech at 10:34, concluding remarks that lasted about 34 minutes. The pool watched from a side second-floor media balcony.
Some quotes:
"We will lead not just by the example of our power, but god willing, by the power of our example," Biden said.
"We need to act now to get shots in arms as soon as possible," Biden said, adding that the U.S. has already put $15 billion in the global COVID-19 vaccine response.
Biden said he would be announcing "additional committements" to help vaccinate the world during Wednesday's COVID-19 cummit.
He discussed the "borderless climate crisis" and said the world must raise our "collective ambitious over time." Biden announced that he wants Congress to "double" its commitment toward global financing to fight climate change to meet a $100 billion worldwide goal.
Biden said the U.S. "will compete and compete vigrously," and oppose attemsps by stronger countries to dominate weaker one.
"We are not seeking a new Cold War," Biden said, but did not specifically say "China."
Biden: "The United States remains committed from preventing Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon."
Biden brefly talked about Afghanistan, paying homage to the 13 Americans and Afghan civilians killed during the recent terrorist attack in Kabrul and defending the withdrawal.
"The world today is not the world of 9/11. Today we're better equpped to prevent terrorist attacks."
"We all must support the rights of women and girls to use their full talents," Biden said as he called on the world to defend the civil rights of all people.
"The future will belong to those who embrace human dignity, not trample."
"Democracy remains the best tool we have to unleash our full human potential," Biden said near the end of his speech.
Biden (check quote here): "I stand here today for the first time in 20 years without a war. We've turned the page."
Biden: "I can tell you where American is. We will choose to build a better future. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to waste any more time. Let's get to work now."
You can listen to the full remarks at whitehouse.gov/live



September 21, 202110:48

White House out-of-town pool report #6 — rolling again
The motorcade and pool vans pulled out of the UN headquarters at 10:47 am ET, heading back to the Intercontinental Barclay New York hotel, where Biden is having a bilateral meeting with Austrian PM Scott Morrison at noon.
The pool did not witness Biden leaving the headquarters or entering the presidential vehicle.



September 21, 202110:58

White House out-of-town pool report #7
The presidential motorcade arrived back a the Intercontinental New York Barclay hotel at 10:52 am ET.
The pool will is now holding in a hotel conference room and about to eat sandwiches from The Mill, a nearby restaurant. Biden's bilateral meeting with Australia PM Morrison begins at noon.



September 21, 202111:39

White House out-of-town pool report #8
Passing along from earlier during Biden's speech …
On background from a White House Official:
"According to the UN COVID-19 protocols, the podium will be cleaned after every speaker and the microphone head will be replaced."



September 21, 202112:16

White House out-of-town pool report #9
Biden kicked off his bilateral meeting with Australia PM Morrison at 12:08 ET pm. His remarks before the pool ended at 12:12 pm. US and Australian press were both present.
Biden did not respond to several questions shouted by reporters — most regarding any regrets about France — as the pool was rushed away by WH aides.
During his brief remarks, Biden said it was great to see Morrison and looks forward to welcoming him to the WH Friday.
"We have a big agenda to discuss today," Biden said, adding that the US and Australia are "lockstep" on the goals he discussed during his speech.
"I meant what I said today. We are at an inflection point."
Morrison said: "It's not just about our partnership … the issues we discuss in our partnership really do reach out to so many others."
Morrison to Biden: "There's no doubt you get it."
Will send more quotes shortly.



September 21, 202112:42

White House out-of-town pool report #10
Here are some remarks from Biden and Morrison before their bilateral meeting.
Biden: "The United States has no closer and more reliable ally than Australia."
"We have a big agenda to discuss today, starting with our partnership to advance our commitment for a free and open Indo-Pacific. This conservation I'm going to continue with Japan, Korea and India on Friday."
Biden: "The U.S. and Australia are working in lockstep on the priorities I laid out today in my speech to the United Nations – ending COVID, addressing climate crisis, defending democracies … I meant what I said. WE are at an inflection point. Things are changing. Things are rapidly changing."
Biden thanked Morrison, referring to him by his first name, "Scott."
Morrison thanked Biden for his "warm welcome," and said it's important to be in New York because this month marks the 70th Anniversary of the ANZUS Alliance. He said the one time the alliance was invoked was during the 9/11 attacks.
"And so, as we remember all those who were lost on that day, we reflect on frankly more than 100 years of our partnership where we have stood together during the most difficult times and the most prosperous of times. The United States and Australia have always shared a partnership that is about world order that favors freedom. That's why we've always been together. And pursing that freedom, of course goes to our security. But more than that, it goes to love and property. It goes to global freedom, the freedom of our cities, the freedom of our way. It goes to addressing the great global challenges of climate change, a new energy economy and a very challenge future – but one our partnership, I have no doubt will be able to address."
But he said it's "not just about our partnership, because our partnership reaches out to so many others," adding that, "The issues we discuss in our partnership today really do reach out to so many others."
Morrison: "Mr. President, I want to thank your for your leadership and your focus on the Indo-Pacific region. There's no doubt that you get it."
Biden responded to Morrison in agreement. "It goes way beyond just our partnership. Our partnership is in line with all the other democracies in the world."
"We've got a lot of work to do," Biden concluded. "So thank you all very much."
Biden then declined to respond to several questions about France –- which neither Biden nor Morrison mentioned in their remarks.



September 21, 202112:53

White House out-of-town pool report #11
?The pool loaded up and is holding in a van outside the Intercontinental New York Barclay hotel, where there is heavy security.
We are waiting for the motorcade to go to the helicopter landing zone in Manhattan, where the president will take Marine One to JFK airport in Queens.
Your pooler did not spot the president before loading up in the van.



September 21, 202113:34

White House out-of-town pool report #12 — rolling
? Motorcade rolling at 1:32 pm ET, leaving the hotel area and heading to the helicopter landing zone in Manhattan.



September 21, 202113:55

White House out-of-town pool report #13
?The motorcade pulled up to the Manhattan landing zone at 1:48 pm ET. The pool did not see Biden leave his vehicle or board Marine One. The pool departed via an Osprey helicopter at 1:55 pm ET.
We are headed to JFK airport in Queens, where we will board AF1 to head back to Andrews Air Force Base.



September 21, 202114:17

White House out-of-town pool report #14
Biden, riding Marine One, landed at JFK airport at 2:09 pm ET. He exited the aircraft at 2:13 pm.
Biden boarded AF1 at 2:13 pm after saluting two service members at the bottom of the steps. He gave a wave and what appeared to be a thumbs up at the top of the steps, gesturing to someone in the opposite direction of the pool.
Biden did not speak to reporters.
WH press secretaryJen Psaki will give a press briefing aboard AF1. You can listen at Whitehouse.gov/live. We are headed to Andrews Air Force base.



September 21, 202114:25

White House out-of-town pool report #15 — wheels up
Wheels up in Air Force One at 2:24 pm ET, heading from New York to Andrews Air Force Base.
Listen to the press briefing at Whitehouse.gov/live. It will begin shortly.



September 21, 202115:03

White House out-of-town pool report #16
Air Force One landed at Andrews at 2:59 pm ET. It was a smooth uneventful ride. Press Secretary Jen Psaki held a 17-minute press briefing.
From the WH:
At Andrews, President Biden will be greeted by Col Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing
Traveling on Marine One with the President:Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President



September 21, 202115:07

White House out-of-town pool report #17
I failed to pass this along earlier in regards to Biden's meeting with Morrison today:
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with The Honorable Scott Morrison MP, Prime Minister of Australia:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT. H. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Ambassador of the United States to the United NationsT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Edgard Kagan, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for East Asia and Oceania, NSCMr. Chris Johnstone, Director for East Asia, NSC
Australia ManifestT.H. Scott Morrison MP, Prime Minister of AustraliaSenator T.H. Marise Payne, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for WomenT.H. Peter Dutton MP, Minister for DefenseH.E. Arthur Sinodinos AO, Ambassador to the United States of AmericaDr. John Kunkel, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime MinisterMr. Philip Gaetjens, Secretary, Department of Prime Minister and CabinetMs. Michelle Chan, National Security Advisor and Senior Advisor (International)



September 21, 202115:16

White House out-of-town pool report #18
? President Biden exited AF1 at Andrews at 3:09 pm ET. He walked down the stairs and greeted three service members at the bottom with a salute. He then walked to Marine One, escorted by Col. Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing. Biden boarded Marine One at 3:10 pm ET.
Marine One lifted off the ground en route for the White House at 3:15 pm ET.



September 21, 202115:22

White House out-of-town pool report #19 — handing off
? Thanks for following these last two days during Biden's trip to the UN in New York! I'm signing off on pool duties now and handing to the WH in-town pool. Let me know if you have any questions. My contact info is below:




 
Pool Reports below by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




September 21, 202110:25

Foreign pool report #1 
Hello all,
I'll be your foreign pooler again for the President's bilateral today with Australian PM Scott Morrison which is scheduled for noon here at the Intercontinental Hotel.
The President began his speech at the UNGA at 10am and is still speaking as I'm sending this.
A quick background on Scott Morrison. He's been Prime minister since august 2018. He's been in government since 2013, first as minister for Immigration & Border, then minister for Social Services followed by Treasurer in 2015.
This meeting comes almost a week after the announcement of the AUKUS pact between the US, Australia & the UK.
The announcement triggered outrage from the french, who lost not only the submarine contract, but were also kept in the dark about the deal both by the US & Australia. France has called it "a stab in the back"
Morrison will see POTUS again on Friday at the White House for the Quad meeting with leaders of India & Japan.
(Biden & Morrison are meeting in NY while the other 2 quad bilats will be held on Friday)



September 21, 202112:32

Foreing pool report #2 
Biden and Morrison remarks to the press lasted about 4mn
Morrison spoke 2nd for a little over 2mn:
"the United States and Australia have always shared a partnership that is about a world order that favors freedom."
"But it's not just about our partnership because our partnership reaches out to so many others, whether it be our friends in in the ASEAN nations, or in Europe or elsewhere, where we share so many like minded interests."
Morrison thanked Biden for his focus on the IndoPacific region, telling him "There is no doubt you get it"
Neither answered multiple shouted questions about France & the AUKUS deal.
I was asked by a very startled australian reporter whether WH wranglers were always so strict about ushering the pool out without questions.
Attending the meeting on the Australian side per WH:
Australia ManifestT.H. Scott Morrison MP, Prime Minister of AustraliaSenator T.H. Marise Payne, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Minister for WomenT.H. Peter Dutton MP, Minister for DefenseH.E. Arthur Sinodinos AO, Ambassador to the United States of AmericaDr. John Kunkel, Chief of Staff, Office of the Prime MinisterMr. Philip Gaetjens, Secretary, Department of Prime Minister and CabinetMs. Michelle Chan, National Security Advisor and Senior Advisor (International)




 
Pool Reports below by Shelby Talcott, The Daily Caller 



Sent:
Reports:




September 21, 202114:46

In-town pool report #1: Gather time for arrival moved up
Good afternoon from the White House, where your pooler has been COVID tested and it appears that there may be some unexpected rain incoming. No major changes to POTUS schedule aside from the gather time for his arrival: *Please note that this has been pushed up by about a half hour to 3:10pm.* It's open press.



September 21, 202115:17

In town pool report #2: gathering
?Pool is gathering ahead of POTUS arrival — he's en route to WH as of 3:15pm, per out of town pool.



September 21, 202115:29

In town pool report #3: POTUS Arrival
POTUS arrived back at the White House at 3:23pm and exited M1 at 3:26pm. He walked across the grass, a distance away from the pool and did not look in the direction of gathered reporters. POTUS entered the Oval Office at 3:27pm.



September 21, 202116:44

In town pool report #4: PM arrives, gathering 
Pool caught a glimpse of PM Johnson entering the West Wing at 4:42. Pool is now gathering for the UK bilat.



September 21, 202117:07

In town pool report #5: Bilat begins 
Pool was escorted into the Oval Office at 5:05pm. POTUS and the PM sat beside each other in separate chairs, both masked. POTUS began speaking first, moments after pool entered the room. More TK.
Passing along from the White House:
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with The Right Honorable Boris Johnson, M.P., Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Philip Reeker, Chargé d'affaires, U.S. Embassy LondonT.H. Daleep Singh, Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy NEC DirectorT.H. Melanie Nakagawa, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Climate and Energy for NSCT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe for NSC
United Kingdom ManifestThe Right Honorable Boris Johnson, M.P., The Prime Minister Of The United Kingdom Of Great Britain And Northern IrelandThe Right Honorable Liz Truss, Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development AffairsSir Stephen Lovegrove, National Security AdvisorHer Excellency Karen Pierce, Ambassador of the United Kingdom of Great Brittan and Northern Ireland to the United StatesMr. William Gelling, Private Secretary for Foreign AffairsMr. Jack Doyle, Director of CommunicationsMr. John Bew, Special Advisor



September 21, 202117:19

In town pool report #6: Pool escorted out
Pool was
POTUS, in his opening remarks, welcomed the PM to the White House. He said the general assembly made clear that climate must be the core focus, brought up the build back better world initiative launched today and said they'd be discussing continued cooperation on Afghanistan and in the Pacific.
The two briefly discussed Amtrak, as the PM traveled to DC this way.
The PM thanked POTUS and brought up his speech, mentioning that he "made the difference on supporting the world to adapt to climate change." He said the relationship with Australia has " has great potential to benefit the whole of the world."
At the urging of the PM, the two world leaders briefly took questions (from two reporters, chosen by the PM). They were about trade.
Pool was quickly ushered out at 5:15pm and questions about France went unanswered, though reporters shouted as they were leaving the Oval Office.
Full transcript TK.



September 21, 202117:56

In town pool report #7: Rough Transcript Remarks
POTUS: It's a pleasure to welcome to the White House and the Oval Office Prime Minister Johnson, I'm honored to have a chance to have you here. He returned a small amount of hispitality compared to all of the hospitality he provided for the G7 and our families and Cornwall. Since then our countries have worked closely on a whole range of things, and our fellow democracies. We continue to work on, and we're gonna talk about today, the ... we made out of the G7. We're turning to our revitalized Atlantic Charter, to make it something we're gonna turn it to real action. So, make some major plays, a major role with challenges.
Earlier today I addressed the United Nations General Assembly and I made clear that climate has to be the core area of action for all of us and as we look ahead to the UK hosted ... 26, which I'm really anxious to attend in Glasgow in November, Prime Minister, promoting our democratic order. We're gonna be there ... We're gonna include ... to our build back better world initiative that we launched today. And today we're going to discuss the next steps in all of this, as well as how the US and UK can continue our cooperation in Afghanistan and the Indo- Pacific and around the world and I want to thank you again, Boris, for taking the time to be here and I understand ... You came down on the Amtrak? Is that right?
PM: I did. (inaudible back and forth)
POTUS: I've traveled a million miles. You think I'm joking
PM: They love you
POTUS: Oh, well, they should. I've traveled more on AMTRAK ... If I were conductor I'd be number one in seniority ... I've got to tell you a quick story, it's got nothing to do with anything. When I was Vice President, the Secret Service didn't like me traveling on AMTRAK because ... the options .. but I insisted that I do it. And one day, they put in the newspaper, Biden travels ...(inaudible number of) miles ... And so I'm walking up to getting the train on that Friday. And a guy, who was the number three guy from New Jersey ... grabbed me, "Joey baby!" I thought the secret service was gonna shoot him.
I said no no, he's a friend it's a joke. 'Big deal! 1,300,000 miles on AMTRAK. I mean Air Force One. Do you know how many miles you've traveled on Amtrak? I said no, he said ... retirement dinner, we worked it out. He said, 36 years in the Senate, X number of years at that point as Vice President, average 131 days a year. 357 mles a day Joey you traveled over 2 million miles, big deal! I thought they should name the road after me.
PM: They make the station after you!
Joe, I want to thank you and I share your, your belief in ... production. I want to thank you very much for today. It's great to be with you ... And This is a very important trip for us in the UK and we've seen some great progress just in the last period... The ban has been lifted on British beef and the people of the United States of America getting rich beef and lamb, the lamb ... What you did with the travel, so that people can travel to the US with two jobs, is also fantastic. And very often ... we worked on that for a long time, but I think the most important thing today is being .. Your speech where you made a commitment to supporting the world to adapting to climate change, doubling the American ... the 11.6 billion pound commitment. It's fantastic to see the United States really stepping up and showing their belief, real, real, belief. And then of course is the progress that we're making in the defense technology partnership that we've met and with our Australian friends that I think has great potential to benefit the whole of the world.
So thank you for, for having us. And I think you know where we're boosting our shared agenda ... the world together with you. And I think we want to run you ... it feels to me like it's going very, very well but I think we will take a couple of questions, just a couple of people.
Q's TK, very hard to hear.



September 21, 202118:13

In town pool report #8: Q and A's from bilateral
First question, inaudible via recording, was about Harry Dunn and then about trading. Per usual please check all quotes against the official transcript.
Biden: One, a lot of cases being worked on. I was under the impressions but I don't know this, I want to be clear, I was under the impression there had been a civil settlement reached, but I don't know that. And based on ... i've been told .. someone who was new to driving on the wrong side of the road, quote unquote, and. But I'll follow up on that ... I don't know the status of that case right now.
The other question was?
(Inaudible)
POTUS: We're gonna talk about trading a little bit today and we're gonna have to work that through.
PM: The Boeing Airbus thing which was a massive problem between us, so we'll make a lot of progress ... On the Harry Dunn case which was a very very very sad case .. the family of Harry Dunn, are finding that the president has been personally trying to move things along and I'm grateful for that.
We're gonna take, we're gonna take one more question ...
Q: President Biden, President Trump said that he was in front of the queue when it came to a trade deal. You seem to have a different approach, is that because of your heritage, your concern about the Irish protocol? Is that what's holding you back when it comes to dealing with steel with the UK?
POTUS: There are two separate issues. On the deal with the UK, that's continuing to be discussed. But on protocols, we feel very strongly about this, we spent an enormous amount of time and effort in the United States. It was a major bipartisan effort ... and I would not at all liked to see, nor I might add would any of my Republican colleagues, would like to see a change in the Irish court ...
PM: On that point, Joe, we are completely at one. And I think nobody want to see anything that interrupts or un-balances the Belfast Good Friday ...
-----
Questions about the Southern Border, France were yelled as we were being ushered out of the Oval Office. Biden appeared at one point to gesture in some way after a Q regarding the southern border, but his response was inaudible over the yelling of White House aides pushing the pool out.
Here's an Otter link, courtesy of Emily Goodin from Daily Mail: https://otter.ai/u/x8pnjde4A0Hsm5cDvQlj34gkemA



September 21, 202118:16

In town pool report #9: Update on inaudible Biden response
Per CBS News' Ed O'Keefe, he asked for POTUS's response to the situation at the southern border as pool was being pushed out.
POTUS said in part that "violence is not justified." The rest of the response is not decipherable.



September 21, 202118:42

In town pool report #9B: Addendum
One additional thing to note: Your pooler heard some British reporters talking who appeared to be quietly surprised at the White House aides yelling/ushering pool out of the Oval Office earlier.
Also, the PM departed the West Wing just a few minutes ago.



September 21, 202118:57

In town pool report #10: Lid
We have a travel/photo lid at 6:53pm.
Flagging for those interested, via radio pooler Steve Portnoy, that the editorial component of the US pool lodged a formal complaint with Jen Psaki after the Oval Office this evening. VOA's Steve Herman has a tweet with some more details, if interested.
Thanks, all. Please reach out with any questions, per usual.



September 21, 202118:58

In town pool report 10A: bilat ending time
The bilat ended at 6:31 PM, per White House. Have a good night!




 
Pool Reports below by Lalit K. Jha, Press Trust of India 



Sent:
Reports:




September 21, 202117:56

Foreign Pool Report # 1
Bilateral meeting between President Joe Biden and the Prime Minister Boris Johnson of the United Kingdom
PM Johnson's motorcade pulled up the North Portico at 4:41 pm
Your pooler entered the Oval Office at 5:04 pm
The two leaders were wearing masks.
President Biden in his opening remarks welcomed Prime Minister Boris Johnson to the Oval. POTUS referred to the G7 Summit in the UK early this summer. POTUS said they are turning to revitalize the Atlantic Charter"
Earlier today I addressed the United Nations General Assembly and I made clear that climate has to be the core area of action for all of us and as we look ahead to COP26. I'm really anxious to attend Glasgow in November.
Our economies have to work very closely through our build back better world initiative that we launched.
Today we're going to discuss the next steps and all of this as well as how the US and UK continue our cooperation in Afghanistan and the Indo-Pacific and around the world.
In between Prime Minister Johnson was seen taking some notes on a piece of paper.
POTUS mentioned the Amtrak train ride that the Prime Minister had today from Penn Station New York City to Union Station in Washington DC. There were some lighter moments as POTUS shared his experience aboard Amtrak Trains as an avid train rider during more than three decades of him being the US Senator from Delaware.
Prime Minister Johnson in response thanked POTUS and described this as a very important trip. This is a very important trip in the UK, and we've seen some great progress just in the last period. PM Johnson welcomed the US decision to lift the ban on Beef from the UK. We are working on the lamb, he said.
He also welcomed the US decisions on lifting travel restrictions. People can travel to the US with two jabs is also fantastic, he said.
But I think the most important thing today is your speech to UNGA, where you made a commitment on supporting the world to adapt to climate change.. doubling the American commitment is very important for us. It is fantastic to see the United States really stepping up and showing a real real lead.
PM Johnson also mentioned the Defense Technology Partnerships between the US, United Kingdom and Australia. This, he said, will benefit the security of the whole world. "So Joe, Thank you for having us," the PM said.
PM Johnson took the initiative and said he is going to take a couple of questions. Then he identified two British journalists to ask the questions.
The first question was on Harry Dunn case:
POTUS said: He was under the impression that there had been a civil settlement reached. …I would I don't know the status of that case right now.
PM Johnson said: this is a very sad case. I know that the President has been constantly trying to move things along, and I'm grateful for that.
As usual, please check against official transcripts.
The pool was ushered out of the Oval at 5:14 pm
From White House:
In attendance for the President's bilateral meeting with The Right Honorable Boris Johnson, M.P., Prime Minister of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Lloyd Austin, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Philip Reeker, Chargé d'affaires, U.S. Embassy LondonT.H. Daleep Singh, Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy NEC DirectorT.H. Melanie Nakagawa, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Climate and Energy for NSCT.H. Dr. Amanda Sloat, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe for NSC
United Kingdom ManifestThe Right Honorable Boris Johnson, M.P., The Prime Minister Of The United Kingdom Of Great Britain And Northern IrelandThe Right Honorable Liz Truss, Secretary of State for Foreign, Commonwealth and Development AffairsSir Stephen Lovegrove, National Security AdvisorHer Excellency Karen Pierce, Ambassador of the United Kingdom of Great Brittan and Northern Ireland to the United StatesMr. William Gelling, Private Secretary for Foreign AffairsMr. Jack Doyle, Director of CommunicationsMr. John Bew, Special Advisor
Background:
Both POTUS and PM Johnson arrived in the city from New York. PM Johnson took a train from NYC. and he tweeted as well. Soon after his arrival, he met Vice President Kamala Harris in the ceremonial VP office in the Eisenhower Executive Office building.



September 21, 202118:57

Foreign Pool Report # 2
As per White House, the bilat ended at 6:31 PM.
We also have a travel/photo lid at 6:53 PM.




  