
    Offers Strong Performance at CNN/Tea Party Express Debate
TAMPA, Fla. — Texas Gov. Rick Perry tonight reiterated his unshakeable commitment to get America working again as the next president of the United States, sharing his record of success as governor of Texas and pledging to apply the same principles nationally that will serve as a blueprint for national economic recovery. He participated in the CNN/Tea Party Express Debate at the Florida State Fairgrounds.
"I attended my first Tea Party Rally on April 15, 2009, the date widely seen as the birthday of the Tea Party movement," Gov. Perry said. "I share the agenda of millions of concerned citizens to fix the fiscal mess created in Washington, D.C., and get America working again."
"As president I will work to rein in federal spending, reduce taxes, bring predictability to our regulatory framework and reduce frivolous lawsuits, the conservative platform I used to help make Texas the top jobs-producing state. By standing strong against tax increases, overreaching regulations and the change-resistant federal bureaucracy, I know we can get America working again."
Perry also highlighted the importance of being honest about federal entitlements and fixing Social Security to protect benefits for those at or near retirement and fixing the system to ensure younger generations reap the benefits of the program they pay into.
On job creation, Gov. Perry has the best record of job creation among all the candidates, including President Obama. Texas has created more than one million net new jobs under Gov. Perry and is home to approximately 40 percent of all net new jobs in America since June 2009.
Consistent with Tea Party principles, Gov. Perry has a strong record of cutting taxes, signing six balanced budgets, and leading America's top job-creating state. He is the only Texas governor since World War II to cut state general revenue spending.
For information setting the record straight about various statements made during the debate, please visit www.rickperry.org/cnn-tea-party-express-debate-recap or follow @PerryTruthTeam on Twitter.
  