
    Following the negotiated end of the independent truckers' work stoppage 2 months ago, the President directed that the administration work actively with representatives of the independent truckers and State leaders to find solutions to serious and longstanding problems facing the independent trucker. The President also recently requested that as a followup, members of his administration report to him on those actions. Based on progress reports prepared by Secretary of Transportation Neil Goldschmidt, Secretary of Agriculture Bob Bergland, and Interstate Commerce Commission Chairman Daniel O'Neal, Jack Watson, Assistant to the President for Intergovernmental Affairs, is issuing today the following summary of actions being taken to deal with independent trucker problems:
—The Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC) has notified each of the 17,000 regulated carriers of their obligation to pass through the fuel surcharge to owner-operators and to comply with leasing rules. The Commission has vigorously enforced these provisions in response to complaints from truckers. Several hundred carriers have been investigated and most are now complying.
—The Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Department of Energy (DOE) have set up a mechanism for locating fuel supplies and directing truckers to them. DOE's field staff also is able to arrange transfers of fuel to areas where shortages exist.
—The ICC continues to update its weekly fuel surcharge programs, .begun June 15, to reflect escalating costs at the pump. The surcharge is now 9.5 percent, and the program will continue.
—Several States have put into effect temporary increases in allowable truck size and weight. When these approached their expiration dates, DOT urged State governments to extend them in view of the fact that Congress was considering enacting Federal legislation to provide uniform limits during a declared fuel shortage.
—The Department of Agriculture (USDA) is issuing weekly bulletins on rates paid to truckers for hauling produce and a monthly report on the cost per mile of operating refrigerated trucks. Arrangements have been made to have both truck rate and cost information available by phone to truckers at 48 USDA Market News Service offices and posted at almost 1,000 truck stops.
—Legislation giving the President authority to mandate uniform size and weight standards for trucks on the Interstate System during periods of fuel shortage has been introduced in both Houses of Congress. The administration supports early congressional action. Secretary Goldschmidt, during his confirmation hearings on September 5, 1979, emphasized to the Senate Commerce Committee the need for this legislation. The administration will continue to push hard for its passage.
—The Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety is developing a way to respond to truckers' complaints about safety enforcement activities. The ICC has expanded its truckers' complaint hotline (800-424-9312), adding several more toll-free lines, and has satisfied hundreds of owner-operator complaints.
—The Bureau of Motor Carrier Safety has already 'begun considering changes in logbooks and hours-of-service regulations. The Bureau has promised to work with truckers to make certain that any complaints, suggestions, or opinions they have are formally considered during the rulemaking process.
—USDA is developing legislation to standardize hauling contract provisions. Such provisions would end much of the uncertainty truckers now face and help safeguard their rights in the market. The provisions could also ease the problem of unfair unloading practices ("lumping") and increase truckers' available driving time by placing loading and unloading responsibilities on the shipper and receiver.
—A joint ICC-DOT-Small Business Administration (SBA) task force, in liaison with USDA, is developing literature and seminars to aid owner-operators in sharpening management skills, reducing maintenance costs, and increasing operating efficiency.
—The ICC is considering penalties for shippers who intentionally overload trucks.
—The ICC is considering permitting owner-operators to trip-lease in their own names, in order to gain greater revenues. The Commission also is studying the relationship between owner-operator costs and carrier rates, and has initiated a rulemaking process to permit carriers hauling exempt agricultural commodities to backhaul regulated goods.
  