
    
Marco traveled to northern Nevada earlier week to meet with voters, hitting four cities and towns — even one that had never played host to a presidential candidate before. As he reminded crowds, he has some Nevada roots: He spent six years of his childhood in Nevada, attending elementary school and junior high in Las Vegas.
The first stop in the important early caucus state: Reno, where Marco gave a talk at the Peppermill casino on Monday night that attracted over 400 people.
Here's a local news report on the event:
Marco emphasized to the crowd in Reno, that he's always been an outsider to Washington, from his 2010 Senate primary run, where his challenge to Charlie Crist looked so implausible, to this campaign, when the establishment wanted him to stay out and wait his turn.
On Tuesday morning, it was off to Carson City, where Marco met with voters at the Carson City Community Center, drawing about 200 voters.

Taking pics with Carson City voters. #NVforMarco pic.twitter.com/JpB2aNSngV
— Brooke Sammon (@BrookeSammon) September 1, 2015
That afternoon, Marco made a stop in Yerington, where he was the first presidential candidate ever to visit. He got some BBQ:

.@marcorubio here in Yerington at the #BBQ! #NVforMarco pic.twitter.com/l0kADG0ywQ — Team Marco Nevada (@TeamMarcoNV) September 1, 2015
And gave a well attended talk at the Pioneer Crossing casino, outlining his plans for making the 21st Century a New American Century:

Marco was the first presidential candidate ever to visit Yerington:

.@marcorubio makes history in Yerington NV as first presidential candidate to visit #NVforMarco pic.twitter.com/JDFYdcQLMM
— Brooke Sammon (@BrookeSammon) September 1, 2015
Tuesday night, Marco was in Fallon, where he was introduced by his state chairman, Lieutenant Governor Mark Hutchison:

Introducing @marcorubio in Fallon to a packed house! #NVforMarco pic.twitter.com/lYZIfCTP5B — Mark Hutchison (@Hutch4Nevada) September 2, 2015
He drew a crowd of about 150 in Fallon. In all, it was a very successful trip to a crucial early state.
Marco got some great coverage in print, too, landing three big front-page stories (one day, he even beat out Burning Man!):
  