
    Pool Reports by David Smith, The Guardian 



Sent:
Reports:




September 7, 202209:36

WH in-town pool report #1/ Today's briefing
Hello all,
The White House sends the following:
'Monkeypox Coordinator Bob Fenton and Deputy Coordinator Dr. Demetre Daskalakis will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing today.'
According to the daily guidance, POTUS and FLOTUS host former President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama for the unveiling of their official White House portraits at 1:30pm. The press briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre is at 2.45pm.



September 7, 202213:13

WH in-town pool report #2/ Pool gathers
Pool and precredentialed media are gathering at the Palm Room doors ahead of the Obamas portrait unveiling.



September 7, 202213:41

WH in-town pool report #3/ In the East Room
Pool and precredentialed media are in the East Room, which is very full of guests (including Rahm Emanuel and many other familiar faces) sitting on six rows of chairs and chatting.
At the front, the two portraits are concealed under blue covers and cannot yet be seen. POTUS’s lectern is close to the portrait of George Washington. Jazzy music is playing.
Livestream at:
www.whitehouse.gov/live



September 7, 202213:52

WH in-town pool report #4/ Obamas event starts
Marian Robinson, mother of Michelle Obama, entered and took her seat. Vice President Harris and the Second Gentleman followed.
At 1.47pm POTUS, FLOTUS, President Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama entered the East Room to loud and rapturous cheers and applause. Smiling, President Obama stopped to shake some hands before taking his seat on the front row.
Speech from chairman of the White House Historical Association now under way.
Live stream at:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 7, 202214:10

WH in-town pool report #5/ Obamas portraits unveiled
At 1.55pm POTUS was greeted with cheers and clapping. He said: "Barack and Michelle, welcome home."
POTUS said nothing could have prepared him better for being president than serving under Barack Obama for eight years.
POTUS said Obama helped us find an "an amazing grace, even in darkness… We counted on him. And I still do."
POTUS described Obama as one of the most consequential presidents in American history and Michelle Obama as one of the most consequential First Ladies.
At 2.04pm President Obama and Michelle Obama simultaneously unveiled their respective portraits. There were high pitched "oooooohs! and fierce applause from the audience.
President Obama said: "It is great to be back."
He described POTUS as "a true partner and true friend". There was a standing ovation for POTUS. Speech is ongoing.



September 7, 202214:13

WH in-town pool report #6/ Background on Obamas portraits
From the White House:
'Today, Wednesday, September 7, President Joe Biden and First Lady Jill Biden presented the official portraits of former President Barack Obama and former First Lady Michelle Obama, painted by Robert McCurdy and Sharon Sprung, respectively. The portraits and the artists who painted them were introduced during a White House ceremony hosted in the East Room of the White House. The White House Historical Association acquired and commissioned the official portraits. Additional details on the paintings and artists are included below.
A video interview with the artists is included HERE.
Digital photos of the portraits can be found on the White House Historical Association website atapproximately 1:30PM ET.
BARACK OBAMAPresident Barack Obama, dressed in a black suit with a grey tie, stands prominently at the center of the canvas. The photorealistic portrait was painted entirely from photographs that were taken by the artist, Robert McCurdy, during a short photo session. It is his preference to work from images rather than sketches completed during sittings. Robert McCurdy (b.1952) spends at least a year on each of his photo realist portraits. His meticulously rendered works capture every minute detail, down to the fibers on his subjects' clothing. The stark white backgrounds of his portraits allow the viewer to establish a relationship with the subject; the focus shifts from the celebrity-status of the individual to the viewer's direct response to that individual as a human being. The composition also allows the viewer to establish their own meaning and interaction. McCurdy's commissions include many notable subjects; Toni Morrison, Jane Goodall, Muhammad Ali, and Neil Armstrong are among his sitters.
MICHELLE OBAMAFirst Lady Michelle Obama wears a formal blue dress and is seated on a sofa in the Red Room. Her portrait was also painted entirely from photographs that were taken by artist Sharon Sprung in various locations on the State Floor of the White House. Sharon Sprung (b.1953) has taught at both the Art Students League of New York and the National Academy School for the past 30 years. Her paintings and portraits have been exhibited since the late 1970s, including many one-person shows in New York City. Through her work on the small details of her subjects, such as their eyes, nose, or lips, she gets to know her sitters. Her paintings are jewel-like in their color palettes, a credit that she gives to her use of Vasari handmade paint. By methodically manipulating the layers of paint, she works to mimic the complexity of real life in her portrait compositions.'



September 7, 202214:32

WH in-town pool report #7/ Michelle Obama speaks
President Obama said: "I want to thank Sharon Sprung for capturing everything I love about Michelle. Her grace. Her intelligence. And the fact that she's fine." There was laughter and clapping.
President Obama noted that his own portrait doesn't hide his grey hair or make his ears smaller and that the artist "talked me out of wearing a tan suit".
Former First Lady Michelle Obama was greeted with huge cheers and applause. She thanked her husband for his "spicy" remarks and told White House staff: "We miss you so much!"
Michelle Obama said: "Believe it or not, it is still a bit odd for me to stand in this historic space… Even if it's a bit awkward for me, I do realise why moments like this are important."
During her remarks, someone shouted: "We love you, Michelle!" There was applause and President Obama seemed moved. Michelle Obama also became emotional as she talked about "a story that includes every American" and insisted: "Our democracy is so much bigger than our differences."
She then introduced FLOTUS, who joked that everyone had stood to applaud except POTUS. He duly stood and applauded, then sat down and rubbed one of his eyes.
FLOTUS said: "When I look at these portraits, I see family."



September 7, 202214:34

WH in-town pool report #8/ Event ends
The event in the East Room ended at 2.32pm. Guests were invited to a reception in the State Dining Room.



September 7, 202214:53

WH in-town pool report #9/ Press briefing now at 3.10pm
The White House says the press briefing is slated to start around 3.10pm.



September 7, 202215:24

WH in-town pool report #10/ Two minute warning
We've had a two minute warning for the press briefing.



September 7, 202215:26

WH in-town pool report #11/ Briefing starts
The White House press briefing began at 3.25pm. Livestream here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 7, 202216:28

WH in-town pool report #12/ Briefing ends
The press briefing ended at 4.26pm.



September 7, 202217:10

WH in-town pool report #13/ Lid
A travel/ photo lid was called at 5.08pm.




  