
    The Clinton Campaign today announced its Oregon Steering Committee, made up of local leaders from across the state that will lead the campaign's efforts in Oregon.
"I believe Hillary Clinton has what it takes to get us out of Iraq and back on track in tackling our real priorities," said Portland City Commissioner Erik Sten. "Our families need healthcare, early education and jobs that make a living wage. By investing in American ingenuity to stop global warming, we can build an economy and place in the world that is sustainable. Hillary will do the hard work in Washington that we need to be successful in Oregon."
"Hillary Clinton has the strength and experience to deliver the change we need, and is far and away the best-qualified person running for President," said Josh Kardon, Chair of the Oregon Steering Committee. "That's a big reason she was able to attract so many talented Oregonians from across the state to lead her Oregon campaign. From Umatilla County to Clackamas, from Jackson County to Douglas, from Lane County to Multnomah, Hillary's Oregon steering committee is unrivaled in representing the true diversity of our state."
"I'm honored to have the support of this distinguished group of leaders from across Oregon," Clinton said. "With their help, we can bring our message of change throughout Oregon and the nation."
HILLARY'S OREGON STEERING COMMITTEE INCLUDES:

Erik Sten, Portland City Commissioner
Andy Kerr, Environmental Activist and Writer, Ashland
Val Hoyle, Former Chairwoman, Lane County Democratic Party
Bob Williams, Co-founder and Co-Chair of the Black Caucus of the Democratic Party of Oregon and retired labor leader, Clackamas County
John Russell, Businessman, Former Chair, Portland Development Commission and the Mayor's Business Roundtable, Portland
Sue Shaffer, Chairwoman, Cow Creek Band of Umpqua Tribe of Indians, Canyonville
Susan Soonkeum Cox, Former Member, White House Commission on Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders, Eugene
Paddy McGuire, Former Executive Director, Democratic Party of Oregon
Sue Castner, Political Activist, Portland
Jane Hill, Former Executive Director, Oregon Trial Lawyers Association, Pendelton
Carol Butler, Political Activist, Portland
Elisa Dozono, Attorney, Miller Nash, and Board Member, Japan America Society of Oregon, Portland
Josh Kardon, Chief of Staff, U.S. Senator Ron Wyden, Portland (Chair)

  