
    Today I have approved a proposal by the Department of Commerce to designate the 6-mile area surrounding Santa Barbara Island and the Northern Channel Islands as the Channel Islands Marine Sanctuary.
Congress passed the law authorizing marine sanctuary designations—the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act—in 1972. It recognized that while the ocean frontier is developed to meet our Nation's diverse needs, we must bear in mind the lessons of past development on the land. We cannot ignore the environmental consequences of our activities. We must temper those activities with prudent environmental safeguards.
Much of the impetus for the law came from the disastrous Santa Barbara oil spill in 1969. Congress developed the marine sanctuary idea as a way of identifying unique ocean areas that deserve special status and making sure that any activities carried on in those areas are consistent with their long-term health and preservation.
More than a century ago, Americans with a clear vision of the future began to set aside as national parks our land's most magnificent natural wonders. Today, in this Year of the Coast, it is most fitting that we demonstrate our concern for future generations by extending comprehensive protection to the marine equivalents of Yosemite, Big Bend, the Great Smokies, and the Everglades.
When I entered office, little had been done by the executive branch to use this important new tool. Since the program began in 1972, only two sanctuaries had been designated. In my 1977 environmental message to Congress, I therefore indicated that I had instructed the Secretary of Commerce "to identify possible sanctuaries in areas where development appears imminent, and to begin collecting the data necessary to designate them as such under the law." I also asked the Secretary of the Interior to work closely with the Secretary of Commerce as he identified potential sanctuaries in areas where offshore hydrocarbon leasing appears imminent.
Since then, my administration has been working to locate areas appropriate for sanctuary designation. We have been doing so in close cooperation with local and State governments and concerned citizens. The Santa Barbara sanctuary is an excellent example of this close working relationship. It was originally nominated by California's Resources Agency, Santa Barbara County, and the National Park Service. It is supported by Governor Brown, Senator Cranston, and members of the California congressional delegation. Much of the public dialog about the proposal was carried on through the California Coastal Commission, and the sanctuary will include State waters.
The area clearly deserves marine sanctuary status. The islands and surrounding waters are an exceptionally productive ecosystem. They provide feeding and breeding grounds for one of the largest and most varied assemblages of seals and sea lions in the world. They are one of the richest resource areas in the United States for marine birds, including the endangered brown pelican. The area has become particularly important as the pressures of human development have driven these species from one refuge after another on the mainland. It will complement the Channel Islands National Park that I recently approved.
The sanctuary will not inhibit activities around the islands such as fishing, recreational boating, and existing hydrocarbon leases but will prohibit new oil and gas leases within the sanctuary boundaries. These and other aspects of the marine sanctuary will provide important protection for the wildlife, marine animals, and flora and fauna of the islands. The area within the sanctuary has low hydrocarbon potential, and therefore this designation will not be detrimental to our efforts to meet energy needs.
The Channel Islands Sanctuary demonstrates how we can work together to manage our environment prudently without major economic sacrifices. It will be a model for other sanctuaries to follow and, once again, California has been a leader in this effort as it has been in so many other efforts to achieve this balance.
  