
    Support Highlights Organizing Power of Women Behind Harris in Iowa
On the heels of the launch of "Iowa Women for Kamala" and ahead of the third Democratic debate, 100 "Blue Wave Women" from across Iowa announced their endorsement of Senator Kamala Harris. These "Blue Wave Women" are made up of women who became engaged in progressive politics in the wake of the 2016 election, helped power a record number of female lawmakers into office in Iowa in 2018, and have continued to use their activism to fight for a better future for them and their families. These women are now committed to electing Kamala Harris as the next president of the United States by collecting commit to caucus cards from their own networks, attending women-to-women phone banks, and talking to their family and friends about how Kamala Harris will defeat Donald Trump and unify Americans around solutions to our common challenges. Many of these women will serve as Women for Kamala Captains and precinct leaders for the Harris campaign on Caucus night.
These women represent a diverse array of backgrounds, but are united in their enthusiastic support of Harris. Many of them are inspired by her fierce questioning of Trump's nominees like Brett Kavanaugh and William Barr, recognizing she has what it takes to take on Donald Trump and inspire the coalition necessary to win in 2020.
"Kamala's vision for our country and proven ability to accomplish real change motivated me to switch from being a registered Independent for 21 years to committing to caucus for Kamala," said Jennifer Jean of Pleasant Hill. "Her intelligence, strength, compassion, and ability to speak truth and ask tough questions of the powerful make her the perfect role model for my teenagers. Her joy and galvanizing optimism is what motivates me to volunteer, knock on doors, and make phone calls to make sure we put this woman in the White House."
"Senator Harris' slogan says it all – she is truly for the people," said Elizabeth Kutter of Cedar Rapids. "But just as important, I wake up confident that she'll win in 2020. I dream about Senator Harris taking down Donald Trump. But first things first, I'm spending my energy to help put her over the top at the Iowa caucuses in February."
"After 2016, I started hearing about Kamala Harris and the amazing job she does as California's Senator. I realized this is who I needed to be involved and motivated," said Sabrina Davis from Des Moines. "When Kamala started running I knew I had to support her so young girls who dream of becoming president can look to the White House and see that yes, it can be done and that yes, it's possible to be a powerful woman in charge."
Harris' campaign in Iowa continues to engage grassroots supporters in unique and innovative ways in every county and precinct across the state. By giving women the tools to organize their own communities, the Harris campaign is able to organize even further in the state. Last week, Kamala Captains hosted nearly 25 events across the state utilizing their own networks and engaging hundreds of new and existing supporters.
Complete list of 100 Blue Wave Women below:
Ruby Bodeker, Benton County
Marlene Peterson, Benton County
Wendy Purdy, Benton County
Lytishya Borglum, Black Hawk County
Pam Correll, Black Hawk County
Shayla Fowler, Black Hawk County
Marcia Buttgen, Black Hawk County
Jennifer Tompkins, Calhoun County
Tracy Smith, Cerro Gordo County
Rose Boehmer, Cerro Gordo County
Stephanie Scholl, Cerro Gordo County
Eileen Peterson, Crawford County
Hope Johnson, Dallas County
Lindsey White, Dallas County
Martha Tabor, Dubuque County
Julie Norby, Dubuque County
Heather Holm, Franklin County
Beth Thompson, Grundy County
Randa Wall, Guthrie County
Tawny Wilson, Henry County
Rachel Foubert, Iowa County
Kim Martin, Iowa County
Ann Sohl, Jackson County
Barb Hood, Jefferson County
Jackie Reger, Johnson County
Jennifer De La Cruz, Johnson County
Allison Bettine, Johnson County
Jan Stewart, Johnson County
Leann Cortimiglia, Johnson County
Diane Thayer, Johnson County
Elizabeth Kutter, Linn County
Katie Hill, Linn County
Gretchen Mellberg, Linn County
Jill Forbes, Louisa County
Barbara Paulding, Lucas County
Joan Rafter, Muscatine County
Sabrina Davis, Polk County
Jennifer Jean, Polk County
Jennifer Norum, Polk County
Ali Henkle, Polk County
Julia Henkle, Polk County
Taylor Millar, Polk County
Brenda Schumann, Polk County
Maggie Crabb, Polk County
Alena Rae Treat, Polk County
Mary B. Doidge, Polk County
Kim Durbin, Polk County
Beverly Mae Pitt, Polk County
Jane Lee Garras, Polk County
Allison Nagel, Polk County
Dawn Black, Polk County
Brooke Black, Polk County
Cherry Shogren, Polk County
Lynn McCartney, Polk County
Diana Shera, Polk County
Alex Vandermeide, Polk County
Robin Kline, Polk County
Kristin Esche, Polk County
Maria Mattiace, Polk County
Katlyn Waltz, Polk County
Vanessa Phelan, Polk County
Jean Hessburg, Polk County
Kyrsten Delagardelle, Polk County
Rebecca Taylor, Polk County
Dianna Baker Hoye, Polk County
Janelle Turner, Polk County
Lori Jones, Polk County
Kathy Schooley, Polk County
Teresa Powell, Polk County
Calla Devlin Rongerude, Polk County
Sheryl Farrand, Polk County
Anne Middleton, Polk County
Melanie Wenzel, Polk County
Ann Dvorsky, Polk County
Shekinah Young, Polk County
Amy Yochem, Pottawattamie County
Kim Swanger, Pottawattamie County
Becky Jackson, Pottawattamie County
Sherlene Eicher , Pottawattamie County
Darlene Roush, Poweshiek County
Sarah Millender, Poweshiek County
Jessie Anderson, Poweshiek County
Brenda Anderson, Poweshiek County
Jennifer Rasmusson, Poweshiek County
Mary Little, Poweshiek County
Liz Kantner, Scott County
Jacqueline Young, Scott County
Kelli Emerson, Scott County
Veronica Conklin, Scott County
Heidi Cullinan, Story County
Lora Jean McMillan, Tama County
Pam Richardson, Warren County
Nichole Poindexter-Wilson, Warren County
Kim Robinson, Warren County
Typhanie Mahlstadt, Warren County
Sara Carspecken, Webster County
Cyndi Hansen, Woodbury County
Cathy Dailey, Woodbury County
Kim Vermilyea, Woodbury County
Celeste Sudduth-Triplett, Woodbury County
Phyllis Kurzak, Woodbury County
  