
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 19
Sandra L. Lynch, of Massachusetts, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Stephen G. Breyer, elevated.
Charles R. Wilson, of Florida, to be U.S. Attorney for the Middle District of Florida for the term of 4 years, vice Larry Herbert Colleton, resigned.
Robert G. Breunig, of Arizona, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1998 (reappointment).
Kinshasha Holman Conwill, of New York, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1997, vice Willard L. Boyd, term expired.
Ayse Manyas Kenmore, of Florida, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for the remainder of the term expiring December 6, 1995, vice Daphne Wood Murray, resigned.
Nancy Marsiglia, of Louisiana, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1998, vice George S. Rosborough, Jr., term expired.
Arthur Rosenblatt, of New York, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1997, vice Richard J. Schwartz, term expired.
Townsend Wolfe, of Arkansas, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1995, vice Rosemary G. McMillan, term expired.
H. Terry Rasco, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1997, vice Arnold L. Steinberg, term expired.
Christine M. Warnke, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1995, vice Louis L. Guy, Jr., resigned.
Audrey L. McCrimon, of Illinois, to be a member of the National Council on Disability for a term expiring September 17, 1997, vice Robert S. Mueller, term expired.
Susan Hayase, of California, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Civil Liberties Public Education fund for a term of 3 years (new position).
James Clifford Hudson, of Oklahoma, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corp. for a term expiring December 31, 1994, vice James G. Stearns, term expired.
James Clifford Hudson, of Oklahoma, to be a Director of the Securities Investor Protection Corp. for a term expiring December 31, 1997 (reappointment).
Submitted September 20
Kathleen M. O'Malley, of Ohio, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Ohio, vice John W. Potter, retired.
Rhea Lydia Graham, of New Mexico, to be Director of the U.S. Bureau of Mines, vice T.S. Ary, resigned.
Submitted September 22
Barbara Blum, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for the remainder of the term expiring May 19, 1996, vice Wiley T. Buchanan, resigned.
LaDonna Harris, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2000, vice Gail Bird, term expired.
Loren Kieve, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for the remainder of the term expiring May 19, 1996, vice William Stewart Johnson, resigned.
Catherine Baker Stetson, of New Mexico, to be a member of the Board of Trustees of the Institute of American Indian and Alaska Native Culture and Arts Development for a term expiring May 19, 2000, vice James D. Santini, term expired.
Walter R. Roberts, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring April 6, 1997 (reappointment).
Sven E. Holmes, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Oklahoma, vice James Oliver Ellison.
Vicki Miles-LaGrange, of Oklahoma, to be U.S. District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, vice Lee Roy West.
John D. Snodgrass, of Alabama, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice E.B. Haltom, Jr., retired.
Mary Ellen R. Fise, of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1996, vice Virginia Stanley Douglas, term expired.
George J. Opfer, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Federal Emergency Management Agency, vice Russell Flynn Miller.
Bernard Daniel Rostker, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice Frederick F.Y. Pang.
  