
    President George W. Bush today has nominated five individuals and intends to designate one individual, and appoint nineteen individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President has nominated Gregory F. Jacob, of New Jersey, to be Solicitor for the Department of Labor. Mr. Jacob currently serves as Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Solicitor of Labor. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Policy Director on the Bush-Cheney 2004 Campaign. Mr. Jacob received his bachelor's degree from Amherst College and his JD from the University of Chicago.
The President has nominated Robert D. Jamison, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary for National Protection and Programs at the Department of Homeland Security. Mr. Jamison currently serves as Deputy Under Secretary and Acting Under Secretary of National Protection and Programs at the Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Transportation Security Administration at the Department of Homeland Security. Earlier in his career, he served as Senior Operations Officer at the American National Red Cross. Mr. Jamison received his bachelor's degree from the University of Memphis.
The President has nominated James F. Moriarty, of Massachusetts, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Mr. Moriarty, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, most recently served as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Nepal. Prior to this, he served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Asian Affairs on the National Security Council. Earlier in his career, he served as a Counselor in the Political Section of the American Embassy in Beijing. Mr. Moriarty received his bachelor's degree from Dartmouth College.
The President has nominated Christopher A. Padilla, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary for International Trade at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Padilla currently serves as Assistant Secretary of Commerce (Export Administration). Prior to this, he served as Chief of Staff of the Office of the Deputy Secretary of State. Earlier in his career, he served as Assistant United States Trade Representative for Intergovernmental Affairs and Public Liaison. Mr. Padilla received his bachelor's degree and master's degree from Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to designate Kerry N. Weems, of New Mexico, to be Acting Administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services at the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President has nominated Paula J. Dobriansky, of Virginia, for the Rank of Ambassador during her tenure as Special Envoy to Northern Ireland.
The President intends to appoint Marc S. Goldman, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring 01/15/12.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad:
William C. Daroff, of Maryland, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 02/27/10;
Jules Fleischer, of New York (Speaker's Recommendation), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 06/24/10;
Peter Hawryluk, of Indiana, for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 02/27/10;
Lee Seeman, of New York, (Speaker's Recommendation), for the remainder of a three-year term expiring 07/13/10;
Lawrence E. Steinberg, of Texas, remainder of a three-year term expiring 02/27/10.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations for four-year terms:
Jorge L. Arrizurieta, of Florida;
Craig Radford Barrett, of Arizona;
Michael E. Campbell, of Connecticut;
Thomas J. Donohue, of Maryland;
Anthony H. Gioia, of New York;
William P. Hite, of Illinois;
Kenneth I. Juster, of California;
Robert A. McDonald, of Ohio;
Edward Joseph Perkins, of Oregon;
Robert Stallman, of Texas.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Export Council:
Arthur D. Collins, Jr., of Minnesota;
Leon Trammell, of Kansas;
Stephen R. Tritch, of Pennsylvania.
  