
    President Trump. Well, thank you very much. It's great to have Prime Minister Netanyahu with us today, a friend of mine for many years. And it's a real honor, I have to say.
We're going to be discussing many things, among them peace between the Palestinians and Israel. It would be a fantastic achievement. And we are giving it an absolute go. I think there's a good chance that it could happen. Most people would say there's no chance whatsoever.
I actually think with the capability of Bibi and, frankly, the other side, I really think we have a chance. I think Israel would like to see it, and I think the Palestinians would like to see it. And I can tell you that the Trump administration would like to see it. So we're working very hard on it. We'll see what happens. Historically, people say it can't happen. I say it can happen.
But I just want to say, Mr. Prime Minister, it's an honor to have you. Thank you.
Prime Minister Netanyahu. Great to see you. Great to see you. Thank you.
President Trump. Thank you very much.
Prime Minister Netanyahu. Mr. President, and it's great to see you again. I want to say that under your leadership, the alliance between America and Israel has never been stronger, never been deeper. I can say this in ways that people see and in ways that they don't see. So I want to thank you for that.
Equally, I look forward to discussing with you how we can address together what you rightly call is the terrible nuclear deal with Iran and how to roll back Iran's growing aggression in the region, especially in Syria.
As you said, we will discuss the way we can seize the opportunity for peace between Israel and the Palestinians and between Israel and the Arab world. I think these things go together, and we look forward to talking about how we can advance both.
Finally, we're going to be speaking tomorrow at the U.N., and I want to say that under President Trump, America's position towards Israel at the U.N. has been unequivocal, it's been strong, it's got both clarity and conviction. And I want to thank you on behalf of the people of Israel and Israel's many friends around the world. Thank you, Mr. President.
President Trump. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Prime Minister Netanyahu. And also, as you well know, this is the Jewish New Year, this week. So I want to wish you, the Jewish community of America, Jews everywhere, people everywhere, L'shanah Tovah—happy, healthy new year.
Thank you, Mr. President.
President Trump. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
Prime Minister Netanyahu. Thank you.
[At this point, many reporters and staff began speaking at once.] Iran 
Q. Mr. President—[inaudible]
Q. Mr. President, do you promise to stay in the Iranian nuclear deal?
President Trump. You'll see very soon.
Q. Sorry?
The President. You'll be seeing very soon.
Q. When will you be proposing—[inaudible]—the ultimate deal—[inaudible]?
President Trump. We're talking about it constantly. Constantly. We're talking about plans constantly.
Arab-Israeli Peace Process 
Q. Two-state solution?
The President. We'll see.
  