
    Pool Reports by Alexander Roarty, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




September 13, 202310:02

In-town pool report #1 checking in
Good morning from a relatively cool if still humid day in Washington. Your pooler is stationed at the White House for a 10 a.m. call-time.
See below for a reminder of today's public schedule. Note that both Jared Bernstein and John Kirby are slated to be at today's briefing at 1 p.m.:
EDT
10:00 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
10:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the Presidential Daily BriefingClosed Press
2:30 PM THE PRESIDENT convenes a meeting of his Cancer Cabinet; THE FIRST LADY participatesCabinet RoomIn-House Pool (Gather 2:20 PM – Brady Press Briefing Room)
6:15 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route to McLean, VirginiaSouth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool (Gather 5:50 PM – Palm Room Doors)
6:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in McLean, VirginiaMcLean, VirginiaIn-Town Travel Pool
6:40 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign receptionMcLean, VirginiaRestricted In-Town Travel Pool 
8:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool 
Briefing Schedule
EDT
1:00 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby, and Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers Jared Bernstein



September 13, 202310:03

In-town pool report #2 brunch lid
White House calls a brunch lid until 12:45.



September 13, 202313:08

In-town pool report #3 two-minute warning
WH calls a two-minute warning for the press briefing



September 13, 202314:17

in-town pool report #4 briefing ends
The briefing began at 1:10 p.m. and ended at 2:17
pool is scheduled to gather shortly for the president's Cancer Cabinet meeting.



September 13, 202314:36

in-town pool report #5 pool gathering
Pool gathering now for POTUS' Cancer Cabinet meeting, which had been slated to start at 2:30



September 13, 202315:19

In-town pool report #6 cancer cabinet // biden didn't answer questions
Pool was escorted into the Cabinet Room at 3:00.
Before leaving, reporters asked Biden questions about the House GOP impeachment inquiry and Sen. Mitt Romney's retirement. The president ignored all questions.
During the event, Biden, seated next to First Lady Jill Biden, started speaking moments after poll entered the room, touting his work on cancer treatment as Vice President and promoting the work he and his Cancer Cabinet had done as part of his "unity agenda."
"The bottom line is the cancer moonshot as it today embodies the nation of possibilities."
The president touted initiatives to get Americans to quit smoking and forthcoming plans to award hundreds of millions of dollars in grants to fight cancer. He said his administration's goal remained curing cancer.
"We used to think we could handle anything. We sorta gave up on the notion that we could cure cancer."
POTUS then handed over the conversation to FLOTUS Jill Biden, who praised her husband's leadership on the issue.
"You did good things, Joe," Jill Biden told her husband.
Pool was escorted out at 3:11. Please check all quotes against the transcript.
Attending the meeting, per the White House:
ParticipantsSecretary Xavier Becerra, Department of Health and Human ServicesSecretary Jennifer Granholm, Department of EnergyDirector Shalanda Young, Office of Management and BudgetDr. Arati Prabhakar, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Science and Technology PolicyEvan Ryan, Assistant to the President & Cabinet SecretaryNeera Tanden, Assistant to the President & Domestic Policy AdvisorStephen Benjamin, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of the Office of Public EngagementShuwanza Goff, Assistant to the President & Director of the Office of Legislative AffairsChair Brenda Mallory, Council on Environmental QualityDanielle Carnival, Deputy Assistant to the President for the Cancer Moonshot & Deputy Director for Health Outcomes, Office of Science and Technology PolicyDon Graves, Deputy Secretary, Department of CommerceGuy Kiyokawa, Acting Deputy Secretary, Department of Veterans AffairsJanet McCabe, Deputy Administrator, Environmental Protection AgencyMandy Cohen, Director, Centers for Disease Control and PreventionLarry Tabak, Acting Director, National Institutes of HealthJon Blum, Principal Deputy Administrator, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid ServicesBill Nelson, Administrator, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)Robert Califf, Commissioner, Food and Drug AdministrationDoug Lowy, Deputy Director, National Cancer InstituteNikki McKinney, Associate Deputy Secretary, Department of LaborAshish Vazirani, Deputy Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness, Department of DefenseSanah Baig, Deputy Under Secretary for Research, Education, and Economics, Department of AgricultureRenee Wegrzyn, Director, Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H)



September 13, 202315:58

in-town pool report #7 lid until 5:45
White House calls a lid until 5:45.
The president is scheduled to attend a campaign reception in McLean, Va, later this evening.



September 13, 202317:59

in-town pool report #8 Biden speaks to Rep. Peltola
From the White House:
The President spoke to Congresswoman Mary Peltola and expressed his deepest condolences on the loss of her husband.



September 13, 202318:14

In-town pool report #9 gathering
Pool is gathering for the motorcade to McLean, Va. The president's campaign reception is slated to begin at 6:40.



September 13, 202318:37

in-town pool report #10 motorcade departs
Motorcade is rolling from in front of the South Portico as of 6:36
Pool spotted Biden walking from the Oval Office to an awaiting SUV in the motorcade a minute earlier



September 13, 202318:55

in-town pool report #11 motorcade arrives
Motorcade arrived at the location of the reception at 6:53 after an uneventful ride through DC and northern Virginia. Not many people roadside on this temperate Wednesday evening.
Pool has not seen POTUS exit his SUV.
Traveling with the president in the motorcade, per the White House:
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentOlivia Dalton, Deputy Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy Press Secretary & Senior AdvisorJohn McCarthy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsMarc Gustafson, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for the White House Situation RoomTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorSheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter



September 13, 202319:20

in-town pool report #12 reception hosts
Pool is holding in a large tent erected for the occasion awaiting Biden's remarks.
Meanwhile, the WH passes this along about who is hosting tonight's reception:
On behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President is attending a campaign reception in McLean, Virginia at the home of David Frederick and Sophie Lynn.
Speaking ProgramDavid FrederickThe President



September 13, 202319:59

in-town pool report #13 Biden on impeachment
Near end his speech at this campaign reception, Biden addressed the House GOP move to open impeachment inquiry. He mentioned Marjorie Taylor Greene and her interest in impeaching bin on day one.
"First they just wanted to impeach me, now best as I can tell, they want to impeach me because they want to shut down the government."
But Biden said he "has a job to do" before he moved on to a different subject.
Before he talked impeachment, Biden started his speech touting recent foreign policy visits, including "historic visit" to Vietnam.
"We strengthened out security in the Indian Ocean and that area, and everyone knows it."
He said he the world and American foreign policy was at an "inflection point" but said he was more optimistic about the state of the world than ever had been.
"Oh, by the way, NATO's still together," he said.
Pivoted to the economy afterward, pointing to a speech tomorrow in Maryland. He said today's inflation report was good news.
"Core inflation, which the fed looks at, is trending back down" to historic levels, he said.
Touts the fastest economic recovery in the world but said people don't read about it in the news.
Touted investments in infrastructure and clean energy but said the deficit has still come down.
"By the way, with all this spending, we brought the deficit down one trillion dollars."
Talked about "codifying" Roe v Wade and banning assault weapons. And said congress should pass the PRO Act.
Please check all quotes against transcript — pool was stationed near a loud fan in this reception area and it was often difficult to hear POTUS clearly.
A large cheer erupted when Biden entered the tent area at 7:20. The host introduced a handful of local elected Democrats, including Sens. Kaine and Warner, and labor leaders from AFSCME Lee Saunders and SEIU's Mary Kay Henry.
Pool had been escorted through the spacious backyard of the reception location — one of the many large homes that dot this leafy part of Virginia — and into a tent that had been set up for the occasion. Soft jazz played while a few dozen people made conversation and enjoyed provided libations while waiting for POTUS to speak (some attendees were inside the house and out of eyesight of the pool). On the other end of the tent from where pool was positioned, POTUS spoke in front of a blue curtain had been hung behind a lectern, flanked by two American flags.
Pool could see former Virginia Governor Terry McAuliffe working the crowd before the president's speech, shaking hands and making conversation.
White House sends this along about who participated in a photoline with the president:
Senator Tim Kaine (D-VA)Senator Mark Warner (D-VA)Rep. Jennifer McClellan (VA-04)Rep. Don Beyer (VA-08)Rep. Jennifer Wexton (VA-10)Mayor Levar Stoney, Richmond, Virginia



September 13, 202320:11

in-town pool report #14 motorcade rolling
Motorcade is rolling from the reception at 8:10. Pool did not spot POTUS



September 13, 202320:15

In-town report #15 fuller Biden quote on impeachment
Pool was able to listen to recording of Biden's remarks on impeachment immediately after exiting the event. A fuller quote follows — apologies this wasn't sent first time, it was very difficult to hear Biden.
"Well, I tell you what, I don't know quite why, but they just knew they wanted to impeach me. Now, best I can tell they want to impeach me because they want shutdown the government."
"Everybody always asked about impeachment. I get up every day not focused on impeachment, I've got job to do. I've got to deal with issues that affect the American people every single solitary day."



September 13, 202320:28

in-town pool report #16 motorcade arrives at WH / lid
Motorcade arrived back at the White House at 8:26, pulling it up outside the south portico.
Lid was called after arrival



September 13, 202321:26

In-town pool report #17 cleaned up quote Biden on impeachment
After finding a quiet spot at the White House, your pooler listened to the recording one more time. Here's what Biden said about impeachment. Additions from the last pool report are in bold:
"Well, I tell you what, I don't know quite why, but they just knew they wanted to impeach me. And now, the best I can tell, they want to impeach me because they want to shut down the government."
"So look, look, I got a job to do. Everybody always asked about impeachment. I get up every day, not a joke, not focused on impeachment. I've got a job to do. I've got to deal with the issues that affect the American people every single solitary day."
That's it from me today, folks. appreciate everyone following along at home.




  