
    In 1992, Bill Clinton promised to cut middle-class taxes. In 1993, Bill Clinton broke that promise and forced through $265 billion in higher taxes on Social Security recipients, businesses, and car and truck owners. Even Clinton himself admitted he raised taxes too much.
"Middle-class taxpayers will have a choice between a children's tax credit or a significant reduction in their income tax rate." (Bill Clinton and Sen. Al Gore, Putting People First, 1992)
"Probably there are people in this room still mad at me at that budget because you think I raised your taxes too much. It might surprise you to know that I think I raised them too much, too." (Bill Clinton, 10/18/95)
Strike #2: Dole voted to raise...Social Security taxes.
Bob Dole's leadership in 1983 saved the Social Security system from bankruptcy. Dole was praised by political leaders from both parties for his role in doing so. Bill Clinton, on the other hand, raised taxes on political leaders from both parties for his role in doing so. Bill Clinton, on the other hand, raised taxes on Social Security recipients by $ 25 billion as part of his 1993 tax package. (Congressional Budget Office, 9/93)
Strike #3: Dole and Gingrich will have to cut Medicare ... Trying to cut Medicare. Clinton himself admitted it was inaccurate to use the work "cut" in discussing Medicare savings.
Wolf Blitzer, CNN
"Mr. President, your most recent Clinton-Gore campaign commercials still speak about Republican cuts in Medicare and Medicaid. Speaker Gingrich points out repeatedly that these aren't cuts in Medicare of Medicaid: these are simply cuts in the projected growth of Medicare and Medicaid which you in your own seven-year balanced budget proposal similarly proposed. Are you prepared now to stop calling the Republican savings in Medicare and Medicaid cuts?"
Bill Clinton:
"Let me say this, are you prepared to stop it? Are you prepared to stop it? When I came to Washington I was amazed when I proposed budgets, that that was the language that was used. The press used it. We all learned to use it from the press...
"So maybe we should try to find some new language, but it ill becomes the Speaker to say that when I -- you go back and you could probably find reams and reams and reams of speeches that he's given about defense and other issues, talking about cuts that weren't cuts -- they were cuts in the rate of increase. .. Everybody knows we have to have savings in the projected levels of spending in Medicare and Medicaid." (White House Press Briefing, 5/8/96)
  