
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Dana J. Hyde – Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation
•      Mark E. Lopes – United States Executive Director, Inter-American Development Bank
The President also announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Renée J. James – Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      Frank F. Islam – General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
•      Amalia Perea Mahoney – General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
•      Shonda L. Rhimes – General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
•      David M. Rubenstein – General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts

Alexandra C. Stanton – General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 
Walter F. Ulloa – General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 

President Obama said, "I am grateful that these impressive individuals have chosen to dedicate their talents to serving the American people at this important time for our country. I look forward to working with them in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Dana J. Hyde, Nominee for Chief Executive Officer, Millennium Challenge Corporation
Dana J. Hyde is the Associate Director for General Government Programs in the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), a position she has held since 2011. Previously, Ms. Hyde served as Senior Advisor in the Office of the Deputy Secretary for Management and Resources at the Department of State from 2009 to 2011. Ms. Hyde was Counsel on the National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States (9/11 Commission) from 2003 to 2004. She practiced law as part of the international arbitration group at WilmerHale from 2001 to 2002, and was also an attorney in the Washington office of Zuckerman, Spaeder, LLP from 1998 to 2000. From 1997 to 1998, Ms. Hyde was Special Assistant to the Deputy Attorney General at the Department of Justice. From 1993 to 1995, Ms. Hyde served as a Special Assistant to the President in the Office of Cabinet Affairs at The White House. From 1989 to 1991, Ms. Hyde was a Legislative Assistant at the American Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC). Ms. Hyde received a B.A. from the University of California, Los Angeles and a J.D. from the Georgetown University Law Center.
Mark E. Lopes, Nominee for United States Executive Director, Inter-American Development Bank
Mark E. Lopes is the Deputy Assistant Administrator of the Latin America and Caribbean Bureau at the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), a position he has held since 2010. From 2007 to 2010, Mr. Lopes served as the Senior Policy Advisor for the International Development and Foreign Assistance subcommittee of the U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Prior to this, he served on detail to the U.S. House Appropriations Subcommittee on State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs. From 1999 to 2001, he served as a U.S. Peace Corps Volunteer in Paraguay. His government service began in 2003 as a Presidential Management Fellow, where he served in a variety of roles at USAID. Mr. Lopes received a B.M. from Berklee College of Music and an M.P.P. from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Renée J. James, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Renée J. James is the President of Intel Corporation, a position she has held since May 2013. Previously, from 2005 to 2013, Ms. James served in various roles at Intel Corporation, including Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice President, and Vice President of Sales and Marketing, and General Manager of the Software & Services Group. From 1998 to 2000, she was Chief Operating Officer of Intel Online Services, Intel's datacenter services business. Previously, Ms. James served as Assistant General Manager of Intel Online Services and as Technical Assistant to Intel Chairman. She joined Intel in 1987 as a Product Manager. Ms. James has been a Director on the Vodafone Group Plc Board of Directors since 2011. She was an Independent Director on the VMware Inc. Board of Directors from 2007 to 2013 and a Director of Intel Online Solutions Board of Directors from 1998 to 2000. She received a B.A. and a M.B.A. from the University of Oregon.
Frank F. Islam, Appointee for General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Frank F. Islam is CEO of FI Investment Group, LLC, which he founded in 2007. In 1994, he founded QSS Group, Inc., an information technology company, and served as CEO until 2007. He is a member of the International Advisory Council of the United States Institute of Peace, the Maryland Governor's International Advisory Council, the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, and the Brookings Institution. He is President of the Frank Islam & Debbie Driesman Charitable Foundation and a member of the Kennedy Center International Committee on the Arts. Mr. Islam received a B.S. and an M.S. in Computer Science from the University of Colorado at Boulder.
Amalia Perea Mahoney, Appointee for General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Amalia Perea Mahoney was the Director of Galeria Amalia Mahoney, an art gallery in Chicago specializing in Latin American Art, from 1995 to 2001. She is a Steering Committee Member of the Women's Board at the Goodman Theatre of Chicago and the University of Chicago Women's Board. She is President of Friends of the St. Columbanus Food Pantry, and a member of the Chicago Council on Global Affairs, the Chicago Committee of Human Rights Watch, Arts Club of Chicago, and the Aspen Institute Society of Fellows. Ms. Mahoney received a B.A. from Loyola University Chicago.
Shonda L. Rhimes, Appointee for General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Shonda L. Rhimes is a writer, producer, and the President of Shondaland, a production company she established in 2004. She is the creator of the television series Grey's Anatomy, Private Practice, and Scandal. In 2007, she received the Golden Globe for Outstanding Television Drama, the Television Producer of the Year award from the Producers Guild of America, and the Lucy Award for Excellence in Television from Women in Film. She has received three Emmy nominations and won the Image Award for Outstanding Writing in a Drama Series from the NAACP from 2007 to 2011 and again in 2013. Ms. Rhimes received a B.A. from Dartmouth College and an M.F.A. from the University of Southern California School of Cinematic Arts.
David M. Rubenstein, Appointee for General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
David M. Rubenstein is Co-CEO of The Carlyle Group, which he co-founded in 1987. He was first appointed to the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 2004, reappointed in 2009, and was elected Chairman by the Board in 2010. From 1977 to 1981, Mr. Rubenstein was Deputy Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy at the White House. He is a Regent of the Smithsonian Institution, Chairman of the Board of Trustees of Duke University, and Vice-Chairman of the Boards of the Brookings Institution and the Council on Foreign Relations. He is President of the Economic Club of Washington, and a member of the Boards of The University of Chicago, Johns Hopkins University, Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, and the Institute for Advanced Study. Mr. Rubenstein received a B.A. from Duke University and a J.D. from The University of Chicago Law School.
Alexandra C. Stanton, Appointee for General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts 
Alexandra C. Stanton is CEO of Empire Global Ventures LLC, a position she has held since 2011. From 2006 to 2008, she was Chief of Staff for the Empire State Development Corporation. She was a Special Assistant to the Secretary at the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development from 1999 to 2000. Ms. Stanton is Vice President of Doctors of the World USA, Vice-Chair of J Street and Vice President of the Board of the Parrish Art Museum in Watermill, New York. Ms. Stanton received a B.A. from Cornell University and a J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center.
Walter F. Ulloa, Appointee for General Trustee, Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts
Walter F. Ulloa is Chairman and CEO of Entravision Communications Corporation, a position he has held since its foundation in 1996. From 1989 to 1996, he was involved in the development and management of the entities that preceded Entravision. Mr. Ulloa started his career in 1976 at KMEX-TV in Los Angeles, California. He is a member of the Board of Trustees of Loyola Marymount University and a member of the Board of Directors of the L.A. Music Center, LA84 Foundation, and La Plaza de la Cultura y Artes. Mr. Ulloa received a B.S. from the University of Southern California and a J.D. from Loyola Law School.
  