
    Mr. Prime Minister and our distinguished guests:
Mr. Prime Minister, you are no stranger to our country; this is your fifth visit, but we are very honored and very proud that this is the first time we have had the opportunity to welcome you as the head of government of your country.
We say that, because New Zealand and the United States have been allies in war, as we are now allies in peace. And I say it, too, from a personal sense, because as I have often pointed out to many visitors from New Zealand and to you this morning, I have very pleasant memories of serving with New Zealand forces in the Solomons, your Third New Zealand Division. And then also, Mrs. Nixon and I have the' most pleasant memories of the year 1953--it was 20 years ago, when on a trip around the world, the first country we visited, as Vice President of the United States, was New Zealand.
We shall never forget the warmth of the welcome we received, not only in Auckland but in the South Island as well. And we brought back from that trip an affection for not only your country but your people, which has never left us.
To our distinguished guests tonight, I have had an opportunity that most of you have not had, and that is to talk to the Prime Minister at some length this morning about some of our mutual problems and our concerns in the world.
Most of you probably read of his speech in the U.N. yesterday when he said that he spoke for the little countries of the world. When he rises to respond to my remarks, you will see that the man who represents the little countries of the world is a big man.
Prime Minister Kirk, however, is not only a big man physically, as he is, but I can tell you from our rather brief acquaintance that he is also a big man in terms of his love of his country, his pride in his background in that country and also in the idealism with which he approaches the problems of building a structure of peace in the Pacific, in Asia, and in the world. And the world is fortunate that a man with his background, with his idealism, with his strength, with his concern for little countries as well as little people, is leading this nation, which is in a way, we think, so far away from us.
And I would simply say, Mr. Prime Minister, that perhaps it would be hard to find any two countries in the world that are further apart geographically than New Zealand and the United States. But it would be hard to find, also, any two countries in the world that in terms of what we seek in the world, in terms of our common ideals, in terms of what we believe, are closer together, because we both seek a world of peace, we both seek a world in which not only great powers but small powers and small nations are safe, independent, and respected.
And we both seek a world in which all people in the world--all people in the world--wherever they may be, not only in our countries, which are fortunate to be far above the average in terms of our income, shall have the opportunity to move forward toward a better life.
In this room in which, for over 150 years, leaders from other governments have spoken, these words I know may sound now almost trite, but I would say that we are entering an era when the opportunity not only to build a structure of peace which will last for perhaps the balance of the century and beyond, but also to build a new world in which all nations and all people go forward together to a better life, where that opportunity is better than it has ever been. And we are very proud that we have the opportunity, Mr. Prime Minister, to work with you, your people, your government toward that great end.
Ladies and gentlemen, I know you will want to rise and drink to the health of the Prime Minister.
To the Prime Minister.
  