
    Assembly Members, McClain, Mortenson and Arberry to Mobilize Caucus Goers for Clinton
The Clinton campaign today announced the endorsement of three members of the Nevada State Assembly - Assemblywoman Kathy McClain, Assemblyman Harry Mortenson, and Assemblyman Morse Arberry. The announcement comes on the day Senator Clinton introduced her plan for universal health care.
"I am thrilled to help Senator Clinton in her historic bid for the presidency," said McClain. "As a consistent advocate of veterans and seniors issues, I believe it is important to have a president who works hard to support their causes. Senator Clinton's four decades of experience fighting for universal health care, to promote benefits for our heroes at home and to provide our youth equal opportunities to succeed make her the most qualified candidate to lead our country in the right direction. I am pleased to organize the constituents in my district and beyond, and help deliver the Silver State for Senator Clinton."
"I am proud to offer my support to Senator Clinton," said Mortenson. "We need a president who is willing to put science before politics and who will work hard to ensure that all Americans have an equal opportunity to succeed. In addition to her 35 years of experience, Senator Clinton has the skills and intellect to make the tough decisions our country faces and to bring about the change we need. I look forward to working with the campaign to engage my constituents and mobilize caucus goers to support Senator Clinton on January 19."
"Having had the privilege of meeting Senator Clinton when she was First Lady and watching her continued devotion over the years to the needs of hard-working Americans, it gives me great pleasure to endorse her campaign for the presidency," said Arberry. "We need an advocate and leader in the White House who is willing to work above partisan politics to set our country back on the right track. Senator Clinton has a proven record of working across the aisle and I am confident that unlike the current administration she will work hard to put America's needs first."
Assemblywoman Kathy McClain is currently serving her fifth term in the State Legislature where she has focused her attention on health care, veterans issues, consumer protection and senior citizen issues. She is currently the chair of the Taxation Committee and a member of the Health and Human Services Committee and the Assembly Ways and Means Committee. In addition, Assemblywoman McClain is the chair of the Veteran's Commission and a member of the Commission on Aging. She served on the Select Committee for Corrections, Parole & Probation as well as the Judiciary, Constitutional Amendments, and Transportation committees. She is affiliated with HELP of Southern Nevada, the Women's Democratic Club, the Alzheimer's Association of Southern Nevada, the Nevada Women's Lobby, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the American Association of University Women, and the NEW Leadership program at UNLV.
First elected to the Nevada State Assembly in 1996, Assemblyman Harry Mortenson represents Assembly District 42. A nuclear physicist, Mortenson retired from Los Alamos National Laboratory to operate his own scientific consulting firm until he was elected to the Nevada Legislature. Mr. Mortenson continues as an active member in the scientific community. He currently serves on the Advisory Board for the Collage of Science at UNLV, and has been affiliated with the American Nuclear Society, the Astronomical Society, the Archaeo-Nevada Society, the Nevada Archeological Society, the Nevada State Museum and Historical Society; the University Library Society, and the Natural Science Scholarship Association, University of Nevada, Las Vegas. In addition, Assemblyman Mortenson is a past president of the Southern Nevada section of the American Nuclear Society and has authored numerous scientific publications.
Assemblyman Morse Arberry, currently the President and CEO of Canyon Lake Mortgage, has represented the people of Nevada in the State Assembly since 1984. He currently serves as the chair of the Assembly Ways and Means Committee and is a member of the Commerce and Labor Committee and Taxation Committee. He is an active member of numerous community organizations, including the National Association for Advancement of Colored People, the National Black Caucus of State Legislators; Clark County Central Democratic Committee, the Western Legislative Conference, the Council of State Governments, the National Conference of State Legislatures, the Jodie Cannon Prince Hall Mason, and the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Commission.
"The campaign is excited and fortunate to have the support of three seasoned legislative leaders," said Clinton Nevada Chair Rory Reid. "Morse, Kathy and Harry are dedicated representatives who work tirelessly to advocate on behalf of Nevadans, both in and outside of the legislative halls. All three bring tremendous experience and vision, as well as deep community ties to Senator Clinton's campaign."
Today's legislative endorsers join fellow Assembly Democratic Caucus members John Oceguera, Majority Leader; and William Horne, Assistant Majority Whip, in supporting Clinton's bid for the presidency.
  