
    The following listing includes the President's daily schedule and other items of general interest as announced by the White House Press Office during the period covered by this issue. Events and announcements printed elsewhere in the issue are not included. September 23
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs. September 25
The President met at the White House with:
—Vice President Walter F. Mondale, Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Hamilton Jordan, Assistant to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—the Cabinet;
—Ambassador Andrew Young, U.S. Representative to the United Nations;
—Representatives Thomas A. Luken and Willis D. Gradison of Ohio, and baseball player Pete Rose;
—Vice President Mondale;
—Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts;
—Representative John Conyers, Jr., of Michigan.
The President announced the delegation to the ceremonies celebrating the independence, within the British Commonwealth, of the Government of Tuvalu. The ceremonies are scheduled for September 29 to October 1 in Funafuti. Tuvalu is in the South Pacific. The delegation will be:
ELIZABETH G. STEVENS, who is active in civic affairs and politics in Washington, D.C., and will head the delegation;
JOHN P. CONDON, U.S. Ambassador to the Dominion of Fiji;
LEO J. MOSER, political adviser to the Commander in Chief of the Pacific Forces in Honolulu, Hawaii.
The President attended a portion of the reception hosted by members of his family on the South Grounds of the White House for supporters of the 1976 Presidential campaign.
September 26
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—the Congressional Black Caucus;
—Vice President Mondale, Frank C. Carlucci, Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, Dr. Brzezinski, and Mr. Jordan;
—Mrs. Carter, and Harold Hughes, director, and Douglas E. Coe, executive director of the Fellowship Foundation;
—James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget;
—Members of Congress, representatives of business and labor, and administration officials to discuss
United States export policy.
The President attended a portion of the briefing on hospital cost containment legislation given by administration officials in the East Room at the White House.
September 27
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—a group of Members of Congress to discuss the public works appropriations legislation;
—Vice President Mondale and Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers;
—Senator J. Bennett Johnston of Louisiana.
The President attended a portion of the reception for presidents of the U.S. Jaycees in the White House Family Theater.
September 28
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Secretary of Transportation Brock Adams, Senator Howard W. Cannon of Nevada, and Representatives Harold T. Johnson and Glenn M. Anderson of California, to discuss issues concerning the airlines;
—Eric G. Sandstrom, commander-in- chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars.
The President attended a portion of the reception held for United States religious leaders on the State Floor of the White House.
The President has designated Elwood T. Driver, a member of the National Transportation Safety Board, to be Vice Chairman of the Board.
September 29
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Mr. Moore;
—Secretary Brown, Gen. David C. Jones, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and other Defense Department officials, Frank Press, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and Mr. Mcintyre;
—members of the National Association of Farm Broadcasters (transcript will be printed next week);
—Vice President Mondale and the Congressional Black Caucus. The President attended a portion of the briefing on energy given by administration officials for representatives of farm organizations in the East Room at the White House.
  