
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Throughout our history, our Nation's abundant forests have served us in so many vital respects that we sometimes forget this extraordinary renewable natural resource. The growing and harvesting of trees, and the work force that turns them into useful products, make a valuable contribution to the Nation's economic well-being, and to providing homes for our people.
Familiar and useful items ranging from furniture to grocery bags to turpentine were once parts of trees in the forest. Our forest lands also provide water for homes, agriculture, and industry and pastures for grazing animals. Our forests serve us in many other ways. They provide a home for wildlife and are a source of recreational activities ranging from driving through and enjoying the scenery, to mountain climbing and backpacking in our numerous parks and wilderness areas.
We recognize that maintaining a healthy environment and a healthy economy are essential and complementary goals. We can be proud of our success and commitment to effective forest management, which strikes a vital balance between preservation and development of our forests. Through wise and sensitive management, we will maintain this vitally important part of our Nation's heritage, so those who follow will inherit forests that are even more useful and productive.
To promote greater awareness and appreciation for our forest resources, the Congress, by Public Law 86-753, 36 U.S.C. 163, has designated the week beginning on the third Sunday in October as National Forest Products Week.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning on October 16, 1983, as National Forest Products Week and request that all Americans express their appreciation for the Nation's forests through suitable activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 6th day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and eighth.

RONALD REAGAN
  