
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney announced the Romney for President Counter-Terrorism and Intelligence Policy Advisory Groups. These groups are tasked with advising Governor Romney on issues vital to protecting the United States.
The Counter-Terrorism Policy Advisory Group will be chaired by Cofer Black, a former top Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and State Department counterterrorism official and now a Senior Adviser on counterterrorism and national security issues to Governor Romney. The Intelligence Policy Advisory Group will be chaired by Governor Romney's Intelligence Adviser Congressman Pete Hoekstra (R-MI), the top Republican on the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence.
"We have made progress in securing our homeland since 9/11, but we still have much work to do. Critical to our security is effective intelligence-gathering and counter-terror efforts that can prevent further attacks," said Governor Romney. "The individuals in these groups have had distinguished careers in our intelligence and counter-terror communities. I look forward to working with them to ensure that our government has the tools necessary to maintain America's security."
Governor Romney has outlined several strategies to increase our intelligence and counter-terror efforts. In June 2007, Governor Romney spoke to the American Enterprise Institute (AEI) about the need to increase our intelligence efforts. As President, he will create the Special Partnership Force that will work with civilian governments and intelligence personnel to mobilize all elements of our national power to defeat jihadists. He also outlined his commitment to eliminate duplicative efforts in our intelligence bureaucracy, revitalize recruitment and prioritize intelligence efforts.
As Chair of the Counter-Terrorism Policy Advisory Group, Cofer Black said, "The United States faces a new generation of global threats and challenges. Governor Romney recognizes the threats before us and has already laid out the policies needed to give our men and women the tools they need to protect our country."
As Chair of the Intelligence Policy Advisory Group, Congressman Pete Hoekstra said, "Governor Romney understands that a President must focus on both current and emerging threats to our nation and that an agile and aggressive intelligence community provides America's first line of defense against those threats."
Background On The Romney For President Counter-Terrorism Policy Advisory Group:
Cofer Black (Chair): Black is Chairman of Total Intelligence Solutions. Beginning in February 2005, he became Vice Chairman of Blackwater USA and CEO of The Black Group. Black was the U.S. Department of State Coordinator for Counterterrorism with the rank of Ambassador at Large. In this role, he was the point person for the U.S. government's international counterterrorism policy in the first term of the Bush Administration. Prior to joining the State Department, Black had a distinguished 28-year career in the Directorate of Operations at the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA). During his CIA career, Black served six foreign tours in field management positions and served as Task Force Chief in the Near East and South Asia Division, Deputy Chief of the Latin America Division and Director of the CIA Counterterrorism Center.
David Aufhauser: Aufhauser is a Managing Director of UBS AG, a director of the Atlantic Council, a Senior Fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and a member of the National Intelligence Council's Global Markets Advisory Board. He is a former General Counsel of the U.S. Department of Treasury and Chairman of the National Security Council Policy Coordinating Committee on Terrorist Financing where he led the implementation of the Administration's campaign against terrorist financing.
Former Lieutenant General John "Soup" Campbell: Gen. Campbell retired after a 32-year career in the United States Air Force (USAF). In his last assignment, he served as the Associate Director of Central Intelligence for Military Support for the CIA. In this position, Gen. Campbell was the senior military representative at the CIA. Prior to this assignment, he served as the Vice Director of the Defense Information Systems Agency and as the first commander of the Joint Task Force – Computer Network Defense. He also served on the Joint Staff as Deputy Director for Operations. Gen. Campbell is the recipient of numerous military and intelligence community awards. Currently, he is the Executive Vice President of Government Affairs at Iridium Satellite. He had previously served at Applied Research Associates (ARA) as Principal, Defense and Intelligence.
Samuel Cole: Cole is the Chief Operating Officer and a Managing Director at BlueMountain Capital Management. Prior to joining BlueMountain, Cole served as an Associate Principal in the Financial Services sector at McKinsey & Co. Cole has also worked as a private equity investor for Global Partner Ventures in the former Soviet Union. He also spent more than three years as a defense analyst with the Institute for Foreign Policy Analysis.
Kent Lucken: A 14-year veteran of the U.S. Foreign Service, Lucken served in Italy, Russia, Georgia, Croatia and Slovenia. Following the Soviet Union's collapse, he was the first U.S. diplomat in the newly independent Republic of Georgia. He also participated in the Dayton Peace talks while assigned to the former Yugoslavia. Lucken serves on the Boards of the U.S.-Asia Institute, Harvard University's Kennedy School Alumni Council, Tufts University's Institute of Global Leadership and the Boston Institute of Contemporary Art. He has represented the U.S. as an OSCE International Election Observer in Georgia and Kyrgyzstan. Lucken now serves as an International Private Banker and Managing Director at Citigroup in Boston, providing global wealth management services.
John McClurg: McClurg is Vice President of Honeywell Global Security. Before joining Honeywell, he served as the Vice President of Global Security at Lucent and in the American Intelligence Community, as a twice-decorated member of the FBI. At the FBI, he served with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) as a Branch Chief charged with establishing their cyber-counterintelligence program. Prior to his DOE service, McClurg was the Supervisory Special Agent within the FBI tasked with establishing the Bureau's new Computer Investigations and Infrastructure Threat Assessment Center. He also served on assignment as a Deputy Branch Chief with the CIA.
Larry Mefford: Mefford is a 31-year veteran of the U.S. law enforcement and intelligence communities, including 24 years with the FBI. Prior to his retirement in 2003, he was the FBI Executive Assistant Director of Counterterrorism and Counterintelligence. Before that, he built the FBI's first Cyber Division responsible for addressing Internet-related crimes.
Ambassador Tibor Nagy, Jr.: With more than 20 years in the U.S. Foreign Service, Ambassador Nagy served as Ambassador to Ethiopia and Ambassador to Guinea. He has extensive experience in Africa serving in Ethiopia, Guinea, Zambia, Seychelles, Togo, Cameroon and Nigeria. He was born in Hungary in 1949 and arrived in America as a political refugee in 1957. He has received numerous awards including the State Department's "Superior Honor," five "Meritorious Honor" awards, and runner-up for the "Deputy Chief of Mission of the Year" award.
Cal Temple: Temple is Executive Vice President of Total Intelligence Solutions. Prior to this, he served in numerous counterterrorism management positions in the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA). While at the DIA, he led the Agency's Current/Crisis Terrorism Intelligence Branch in support of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Director of Intelligence/J2 and served as the Joint Staff J2's daily terrorism briefer. He also worked as an FBI intelligence specialist and is an Army National Guard veteran. Temple twice received the Director of Central Intelligence's National Intelligence Medal of Achievement, is a recipient of the DIA's Exceptional Civilian Service Medal and the National Military Intelligence Association's John T. Hughes Award.
Ed Worthington: A 31 year veteran of the FBI, Worthington served as the Special Agent in Charge of the Jackson, Mississippi Division of the FBI. He was the Deputy Director of the Counterterrorist Center at the CIA. He was involved in the investigations of the U.S. Embassy bombings in Africa, the USS Cole bombing, the Millennium Threat and the 9/11 attacks. Prior to his retirement, Worthington served a tour of duty in Iraq as the FBI On-Scene Commander. Following his retirement, he was appointed Mississippi's Homeland Security Director by Governor Haley Barbour. Leaving government service in 2006, he currently manages Ed Worthington and Associates, Inc.
Background On The Romney For President Intelligence Policy Advisory Group Chair:
Congressman Pete Hoekstra (Chair): Representing Michigan's Second Congressional District, Representative Hoekstra is an authority on U.S. intelligence issues. In August 2004, he was named Chairman of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, where he had served since 2001. As the current top Republican on the Committee, he is helping to lead Congressional oversight and ensure a strong Intelligence Community. Representative Hoekstra was originally sworn in to the 103rd Congress in 1993. He served a key role in the development of the Contract with America and is a member of several task forces and caucuses, including the Congressional Pro-Life Caucus.
  