
    Mitt Romney today released his weekly podcast on President Obama's failed economic record and broken promises. The podcast is available each week on mittromney.com.
To Listen To Mitt Romney's Weekly Podcast, Click Here: http://mi.tt/OZkKSv 
Hello, this is Mitt Romney.
And this week, Democrats met in Charlotte to re-nominate Barack Obama for President. They tried to recapture the spirit of 2008, when then-candidate Obama stood in front of Greek columns and made a lot of promises about how he'd make life better for Americans.
He was elected, but things did not get better. Under President Obama, we've endured the worst economic recovery since the Great Depression.
This week, after another Democrat convention filled with nice words and a lot of promises, Friday's jobs report once again brought this administration back down to earth. The unemployment rate has now been above 8 percent for 43 straight months.
Nearly 47 million Americans are on food stamps – an all-time record high, and 15 million more Americans than when President Obama took office.
Nearly 60 percent of the jobs that have been created after the recession was officially over are low-wage jobs, and they pay less than $14 an hour.
And our national debt recently reached a staggering $16 trillion, an increase of almost $6 trillion under President Obama.
Americans are hurting, they're paying a heavy toll for these years of drift and disappointment, trying hard to hang on for a brighter day. But when we looked to Charlotte this week for signs of hope from the party in power, what did we see?
We saw a party completely out of ideas. We didn't hear one new idea for throwing a lifeline to the struggling middle class. Instead, we heard a stubborn defense of policies that haven't worked.
We saw a president who once promised to unite us, double-down on the politics of fear and division. Four years ago, he said, "If you don't have a record to run on, then you paint your opponent as someone people should run from." That was Candidate Obama describing the strategy that is now at the heart of President Obama's campaign.  
A couple days ago, the President was asked to grade his economic performance. 
Words like "disappointing" and "dismal" come to mind.  But instead, he chose "incomplete" – because that's the best he can do as he asks the American people for a second term.
President Obama is hoping you'll let him advance with an "incomplete."  But on November 6th, Americans should hold him accountable.  I'm asking you to vote for the ticket that's offering real solutions for the middle class, with a plan to create 12 million jobs over the next four years.
A weak economy and unprecedented debt may be the best President Obama can do – but it is not the best America can do.  I commit to you that I will be the president this moment demands. Join our cause, and help us deliver a better future for all Americans this November.
I'm Mitt Romney, and thanks for listening.
  