
    The President today announced the appointment of nine persons as members of the White House Coal Advisory Council.
The Council was established by Executive Order 12229 on July 29, 1980, to advise the President and the Secretary of Labor on matters pertaining to labormanagement relations in the coal industry, to mine safety, and to productivity in the coal industry. The President announced that this Council would be created on March 14, when he received the recommendations of the President's Commission on Coal.
The members are:
KENNETH V. BUZBEE, of Carbondale, Ill., chairman of the Illinois Energy Resources Commission and chairman of the Interstate Coal Task Force, a group of State legislative and energy department officials.
NICHOLAS THOMAS CAMICIA, of Greenwich, Conn., chairman, president, and chief executive officer of the Pittston Co. He is chairman of the Goal Industry Advisory Board of the International Energy Agency and has served as chairman of the Bituminous Coal Operators' Association and the National Coal Association.
SAM CHURCH, JR., of Springfield, Va., president of the United Mine Workers (UMW), a former miner and UMW local president.
JOHN M. ELLIOTT, of Philadelphia, Pa., senior partner and chairman of the litigation department of the Philadelphia firm of Dilworth, Paxson, Kalish and Levy. He is chief counsel to the Pennsylvania Coal Mining Association and counsel to several coal companies. He is a member of the Pennsylvania Environmental Quality Board.
ROGER A. MARKLE, of Oil City, Pa., president and chief executive officer of the Valley Camp Coal Co., and director of Quaker State Oil Refining Corp. He is a former Director of the U.S. Bureau of Mines and has served as vice chairman of Utah's Energy Conservation and Development Council.
GERALD H. PATRICK, of Leawood, Kans., president and chief operating officer of Arch Mineral Corp., and an advocate in the coal industry of strong land reclamation policies.
JOHN D. ROCKEFELLER IV, of Charleston, W. Va., Governor of West Virginia. He was Chairman of the President's Commission on Coal and will serve as Chairman of this Council.
J. C. TURNER, of Washington, D.C., general president of the International Union of Operating Engineers and a vice president of the AFL-CIO Executive Council. He has represented the United States at International Labor Organization conferences and has undertaken international missions for the AFL-CIO.
JAMES C. WILSON, of Longmont, Colo., president of Rocky Mountain Energy Co., a mining subsidiary of Union Pacific Corp. He is president of the Colorado School of Mines Foundation and is on the board of directors of the Rocky Mountain Center on Environment.
The President also announced that the Federal Cochairman of the-Appalachian Regional Commission, Albert P. Smith, Jr., and the Assistant Secretary of Labor for Labor-Management Relations, William B. Hobgood, will serve as ex officio members of this Council.
  