
    Pool Reports by John Wayne Ferguson, The Houston Chronicle 



Sent:
Reports:




September 9, 202210:13 CDT

VP travel pool report #1/vp arrival
Good morning from Johnson Space Center in Houston. Skies are blue and temps are in the 80s.
VP Harris arrived at NASA's Mission Control Center just after 10 am
NASA administrator Bill Nelson is here.
VP is making a call to US astronauts on the International Space station.



September 9, 202210:21 CDT

VP Pool Report #2/ISS call
Harris tells astronauts that as a "space nerd" and chair of the space council it's an honor to speak to astronauts.
Astronauts are Kiel Lindgren, Jessica Watkins and Bob Hines.
Harris is speaking to the astronauts from black phone at the flight directors desk. Wearing black blazer.
Call was cut short after apparent lost connection with ISS. NASA staff warned there was limited window to speak to the station.
Press being moved to holding room as todays space council meeting gets set up



September 9, 202211:33 CDT

VP travel pool report #3/Holding
Press is waiting in mission control observation room while VP does interview for Meet the Press.
Harris is being joined today by STEM students from Wheatley High School in Houston.
Today's National Space Council meeting is focused on "advancing the Administration priorities in expanding Space STEM education and workforce development, human space exploration, and rules for commercial novel space activities," per VP's office background.
Full background from OVP's office
The National Space Council's mission is to preserve and advance the United States' leadership in space—and to make sure that the use of space continues to improve the lives of people on Earth. Last year, at the first meeting of the National Space Council, Vice President Harris identified three priorities essential to that work: expanding our STEM workforce, addressing the climate crisis, and promoting international rules and norms to govern space activities. Friday's meeting will report on the progress made since the first meeting and expand on the work ahead to: build a skilled technical space workforce, advance human space exploration, and establish rules for commercial novel space activities.
As part of a larger set of announcements that will be made at the meeting, the Vice president will release anInteragency Roadmap to Support Space-Related Science Technology Engineering and Math (STEM) Education and Workforce. This roadmap outlines the initial set of coordinated federal actions to bolster our nation's capacity to inspire, prepare, and employ a diverse and inclusive space workforce.
The Vice President will also announce commitments from over a dozen commercial space companies to partner with community colleges, technical schools, and unions to open three reginal training pilot programs in Florida, the Gulf Coast between Mississippi and Louisiana, and Southern California next month. Participating companies include Blue Origin, Boeing, Lockheed Martin, and Northrop Grumman—more participants are listed in the attached factsheet. These pilot programs will help thousands of traditionally under represented workers in the space field, learn the skills and access the opportunities they need to take on 21st century space jobs. A full list of STEM space-related announcements from the Administration, the private sector, and philanthropy are in the attached factsheet
In her remarks, Vice President Harris will:

Reiterate the U.S. commitment to extending operations of the International Space Station (ISS) through the end of the decade. She will highlight the importance of avoiding a gap in operations between retirement of the ISS and the start of commercial space station operations as well as planning for longer term missions to the Moon.
Announce that the Administration is developing the first rules framework for U.S. commercial novel space activities to meet the needs of a dynamic and rapidly developing private space sector. These rules will be developed in consultation with stakeholders and will promote innovation and collaboration. They will also help to ensure the United States remains a role model in the responsible use of space.
Name General (ret.) Lester Lyles as the Chair of the National Space Council's Users' Advisory Group (UAG) with UAG members to be announced in the coming weeks.

The Vice President's convening of the second National Space Council meeting builds on her work to amplify the Biden-Harris Administration's commitment to deliver the benefits of space to the American people and ensure those benefits are broadly and equitably applied throughout society.
Additional Background on Vice President Harris' Leadership on Space

In August 2022, the Vice President lead a commercial space engagement at the Chabot Space and Science Center in Oakland, California, where she heard from U.S. space companies about their latest innovations and novel space activities.
In July 2022, the Vice President joined the President and the NASA Administrator to reveal the first full-color image from the Webb Space Telescope, illustrating the wonder of space and its power to inspire.
In April 2022, the Vice President announced the United States commitment not to conduct destructive, direct ascent anti-satellite tests at Vandenberg Space Force Base demonstrating global leadership in commitment to norms for sustainable space activities.
On December 1, 2021, Vice President Harris convened the Administration's inaugural meeting of the National Space Council at the United States Institute of Peace in Washington, D.C., demonstrating this Administration's whole-of-government approach to developing and implementing American space policy and strategy.
On December 1, 2021, Vice President Harris unveiled the United States Space Priorities Framework. The Framework represents a whole-of-government effort to outline key Biden-Harris Administration space priorities across the civil, commercial, and national security space sectors. It identifies key United States interests and priorities in space, including:

Space as a source of American innovation and opportunity. Space data, products, and services provide tangible benefits and economic opportunity to the American people. Space exploration and discovery engages and inspires the next generation of Americans.
Space as source of American leadership and strength. The United States is the world leader in space. A robust space program enables us to expand our alliances and partnerships and underpins our military strength.
Maintaining a robust and responsible United States space enterprise. Reaping the current and future benefits of space requires that the United States maintain a vibrant space enterprise across the civil, commercial, and national security sectors.
Preserving space for current and future generations. As space activities evolve, the norms, rules, and principles that guide outer space activities also must evolve. The United States will lead in the responsible, peaceful, and sustainable exploration and use of outer space.


In November 2021, the Vice President visited Goddard Space Center to view the first images from Landsat 9, underscoring how the nation's space program studies climate change.
In September 2021, the Vice President visited Hampton University to recognize the contributions of HBCUs and minorities in STEM fields and how their contributions impact the future success of our nation's space workforce.
The Vice President has also engaged with NASA Astronauts on earth and aboard the International Space Station, including Mark Vande Hei, Victor Glover, and Shannon Walker, and Katie Rubins.




September 9, 202212:56 CDT

VP travel press pool #4/before Space council meeting
We're now in NASA's space vehicle mock-up facilty, also known as Building 9, for the the National Space Council meeting.
The council table is set up between mock-ups of modules from the International Space Station and the new Orion space capsule, which is being used in the Aremtis missions. Further in the background are a model lunar lander and a space shuttle.
Audience is set up for around 200 people. NASA astronaut Christina Koch is in the audience in blue astronaut jumpsuit



September 9, 202213:09 CDT

VP travel press pool #5/meeting background and attendees
Per VP's office
On Background From a White House Official
Vice President Harris will convene the Administration's second National Space Council meeting, which will be focused on advancing the Administration priorities in expanding Space STEM education and workforce development, human space exploration, and rules for commercial novel space activities. The meeting will be held at Johnson Space Center in Houston, TX and the full meeting will be livestreamed at whitehouse.gov/live.



September 9, 202213:33 CDT

VP travel press pool #6/meeting start
Meeting begins at 1:26
Johnson Space Center director Vanessa Wyche with opening statement. She notes that JSC is celebrating the 60th anniversary of itsfounding. next week is also the 60th anniversary of John F. Kennedy's moon speech.
Harris walks in to applause to begin speech.



September 9, 202213:52 CDT

Vp travel pool #7/harris comments
Harris announces space training partnership program with private businesses.
Program is meant to build "skilled, technical space workforce" more than a dozen companies participating.
Talks about the need for not only engineers, but welders, machinists and other technical jobs that don't need four-year-degrees.
Next, Harris talks about Artemis program. Talking about returning to the moon to stay, by building a lunar base and space station and using those facilities to train for going to Mars.
Harris reiterates administration's commitment to the ISS through 2030, and said it is working with private companies for commercial space stations.
Today's NSC meeting will also discuss rules for novel commercial space activities, Harris says
Rules will be flexible enough to cover activities that have not yet been imagined, harris said.
Harris says 21 countries have now signed Artemis accords, an agreement for peaceful exploration of space.



September 9, 202214:08 CDT

Vp travel pool #8 list of NSC members
White House just shared list of present NSC members
List of National Space Council Members:
- Vice President Kamala Harris
- Administrator Bill Nelson, National Aeronautics & Space Administration
- Deputy Director Nani Coloretti, Office of Management & Budget
- Stacey Dixon, Principal Deputy Director of National Intelligence
- Deputy Secretary Don Graves, U.S. Department of Commerce
- Deputy Secretary Polly Trottenberg, U.S. Department of Transportation
- Deputy Secretary John Tien, U.S. Department of Homeland Security
- Deputy Secretary Cindy Marten, U.S. Department of Education
- Deputy Secretary Jewel Bronaugh, U.S. Department of Agriculture
- Undersecretary Heidi Shyu, U.S. Department of Defense
- Assistant Secretary Monica Medina, U.S. Department of State
- General James Dickinson, Commander, U.S. Space Command
- Assistant Secretary Tanya Trujillo, U.S. Department of Interior
- Acting Director Alondra Nelson, Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP)
- Chike Aguh, Chief Innovation Officer, U.S. Department of Labor
- Jessica Rosenworcel, Chairwoman, Federal Communications Commission



September 9, 202214:22 CDT

VP travel pool #9/NSC meeting highlights

NASA administrator Bill Nelson presents video highlighting Earth Information Center, a climate change monitoring system.
The National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration this week launched a new website where people can use satellite data to analyze climate hazards, like heat in their cities
Harris invites panel to talk on STEM and workforce, including Pablo Banda, a science teacher from Charles H. Milby High School in Houston.
Banda: "without question, space is a way to get my students excited in STEM." His school has been working with NASA for science projects related to space.
Banda: "my students need to see that there are jobs in the space center for everyone."





 
Pool Reports below by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




September 9, 202220:25 EDT

VP supplemental pool report #1
Hello all,
I'm your pooler for the VP's event at the British Embassy to sign the condolence book honoring the Queen (just like POTUS did yesterday)
We have a 2mn warning at 8:24pm



September 9, 202220:41 EDT

VP supplemental pool #2
The VP & the SG walked into the British embassy at 8:27pm. They were greeted by Dame Karen Pierce, British ambassador to the US.
They exchanged a few words. The VP offered her a bouquet and apologized for being a bit late.
They then went over to speak to a group of about 30 embassy staffers standing by the entrance.
VP about the Queen: "She was so sincere and committed… she lived what it means to be strong…
We are here to express our condolences."
(She was far from pool so It was very hard to hear her speak. I could only make out a few sentences.)
At 8:30pm VP walked over to the table with the condolence book (decorated with flowers and a portrait of the Queen) where she sat to write her message. The SG also signed.
At 8:33pm VP and the ambassador walked out of the building. They spoke for a few minutes at the door before the VP & SG left to return to the residence, which is, as you know, just next door.



September 9, 202220:57 EDT

VP supplemental pool #3
I've tweeted a picture of the VP signing the book (@ketgorjestani)
I've also asked the VP team for some info about the content of the message and will let you know.



September 9, 202221:39 EDT

VP supplemental pool #4
From the VP's office:
The Vice President wrote the following message in the UK Embassy Condolence Book:
Queen Elizabeth II lived an extraordinary life of service, and we join the millions around the world who mourn this incredible loss. Through the trials and triumphs of the past seven decades, she led with strength, with wisdom, and with grace.




  