
    Magnolia State heavyweight praises Senator Harris' "command," "toughness," and "judgement" to serve as commander-in-chief
Today, former Secretary of the Navy and Governor of Mississippi Ray Mabus endorsed Senator Kamala Harris for president. Mabus has dedicated his career to public service. He was elected Governor of Mississippi in 1987, where he enacted the largest teacher pay raise in the nation. He also served as Ambassador under President Clinton and as Secretary of the Navy for the duration of the Obama Administration, becoming the longest-serving leader of the Navy since World War One. While Secretary, he opened all jobs in the Navy and Marines to women, expanded paid maternity leave from 6 to 18 weeks, moved the Navy off fossil fuels, and built more than twice as many ships as in the preceding 8 years. He will advise the campaign on national security, military policy, and other issues.
Senator Harris has always stood up for veterans and will continue to do so as president. This weekend, she will participate in a VoteVets forum in New Hampshire, where she will unveil her plan to honor the service and sacrifice of our service members, veterans, and their families while righting the wrongs we've seen under the current administration.
"Kamala Harris is fully prepared to be our next commander-in-chief," said Secretary Mabus. "In this world in flux, she has the necessary command of foreign affairs, toughness of character, and judgment in decision-making to keep Americans safe and handle the difficult challenges on the world stage. I am entirely confident in her capability and proudly endorse her to serve as our commander-in-chief."
"Secretary Mabus has been a champion for the people of Mississippi and our service members, and I am honored to have his support," said Senator Harris. "There is no greater responsibility than serving as commander-in-chief, and as president, I will always protect our country, stand up for our interests and alliances, and keep Americans safe."
Mississippi will hold its Democratic primary on March 10, 2020.
  