
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 31 [vii]1
The President announced his intention to appoint Constantino Y. Amores and Alison H. Deem to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Smithsonian Institution.
September 1 [viii]1
In the evening, the President had a telephone conversation with NATO Secretary General Willy Klass to discuss NATO operations in Bosnia-Herzegovina.
September 2
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton had lunch with veterans aboard the U.S.S. Carl Vinson in Honolulu, HI. They then participated in a wreath-laying ceremony at the U.S.S. Arizona memorial and viewed a veterans parade at Fort DeRussy. Following the parade, the President toured the Okinawan festival at Kapiolani Park.
September 3
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Honolulu, HI, to San Jose, CA. Following his arrival at Moffett Air Force Base in the evening, he traveled to Monterey, CA.
September 4
In the afternoon, the President traveled from Monterey, CA, to Pleasanton, CA. In the evening, he returned to Monterey.
September 5
In the morning, the President traveled from Monterey, CA, to Selma, CA. In the afternoon, he traveled to Fresno, CA, where he met with agricultural leaders in Wofford Executive Hangar at Fresno Airport. Later in the afternoon, the President traveled from Fresno to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
September 6
In the morning, the President met with President Ernesto Perez Balladares of Panama.
In the late afternoon, the President and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Baltimore, MD, where they met with Cal Ripken, Jr., at Oriole Park at Camden Yards and attended the shortstop's recordbreaking 2,131st consecutive baseball game. In the late evening, they returned to Washington, DC.
September 7
In the afternoon, the President met with Democratic congressional leaders.
September 8
The President nominated Jeffrey R. Shafer to be Under Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate David A. Lipton to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury for International Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate Melissa T. Skolfield to be Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services.
  