
    Richardson challenges the other candidates on Iraq and vows to reform immigration policy
MIAMI, FL-- Tonight at the Univision Democratic Presidential Forum, the first-ever Presidential forum sponsored by a Spanish-language television network, New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson clearly demonstrated why he is the best candidate to end the war in Iraq and move America forward.
Latinos currently comprise 14% of the U.S. population and are growing in importance in the political sphere.
"Latinos are the heart of the American mainstream," Governor Richardson said. "I am very proud to be the first Latino Democratic candidate to run for President. I think any way this country can promote diversity is important. Latinos care about all issues, including health care and the war in Iraq. We are mainstream. I was under the impression that, in this debate, Spanish was going to be permitted. I have always supported Univision throughout my career. But I am disappointed today that 43 million Latinos cannot hear one of their own speak Spanish."
Once again, Senators Clinton and Obama and John Edwards refused to tell the American people how many troops they would leave behind in Iraq.
"I would bring them all home-- all of them," Richardson said. "At the last debate, I asked Senators Obama and Clinton and John Edwards how many troops they would leave in Iraq. Under the plans on their Web sites, they leave 25,000, 50,000, or 75,000 troops behind. I bring them all home within a period of 6 to 8 months. Our kids are becoming targets-- they are dying. Iraqis are dying. This is the basic, but important, difference between all of us here."
As Governor of a border state, Richardson has had firsthand experience with immigration issues and believes in comprehensive and humane immigration reform that keeps families together. Governor Richardson's record demonstrates his long-standing support for hard-working Latino immigrants in the United States.
"I would get comprehensive immigration reform done in my first year," Richardson said. "I want everyone to look at the Statue of Liberty-- it is a symbol of freedom and diversity because we are a nation of immigrants. This is what I have proposed in my plan: stronger border security, a stronger relationship with Mexico, and the enforcement of laws that punish employers for hiring illegal immigrants. But what is fundamental is a path to legalization. The wall is a horrendous example of what is wrong with our current approach to immigration reform. Congress only funded half of the wall. You know, if you build a 12-foot wall, people will get 13-foot ladders."
Senators Biden, Clinton, Dodd, and Obama all voted for the legislation to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border.
"I would stop raids," Richardson added. "What they represent is a dysfunctional relationship between the Congress and the President, which has been the cause of this immigration crisis. These raids are ineffective and are a symbol of what is wrong with our broken-down system. I object to the dehumanizing of people-- it is not just a question of legislation, it is a question of leadership. But it also involves an earned legalization plan that does not split families apart."
Richardson reinforced his commitment as President to improve the American educational system by investing in our teachers and improving our children's aptitude in math and science. In addition, Richardson will do away with the failed policy of No Child Left Behind.
"I am a strong supporter of bilingual education," Richardson said. "We need pre-school for every child and full-day kindergarten. We are 29th in the world in math and science. This is unacceptable. As for No Child Left Behind, I would scrap it. It hampers bilingual education. It hampers English-language students. What we also need to do is to fund universal education-- a Dream Act for college students. I have a plan that provides college loans for every year of public service."
  