
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 21
In the evening, the President attended Democratic National Committee dinners at the Hay Adams Hotel and the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
September 24
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City, NY. Later, he met separately with U.N. Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali and President of the U.N. General Assembly Razali bin Ismail in Room GA-200 of the United Nations.
In the afternoon, the President met separately with Saudi Arabian Foreign Minister Saud al-Faysal, and Russian Foreign Minister Yevgeniy Primakov in the 12th floor Conference Room of the United Nations. Later, he traveled to Freehold Borough, NJ. In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President named the following individuals as recipients of the first Presidential Awards for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring: Martha G. Absher, Howard G. Adams, Diola Bagayoko, Joaquin Bustoz, Carlos G. Gutierrez, Janet S. Herman, Susan J.S. Lasser, Melvin B. Robin, Walter S. Smith, and Richard A. Tapia.
The President named the following institutions as recipients of the first Presidential Awards for Excellence in Science, Mathematics, and Engineering Mentoring: Columbia University Double Discovery Center, Dartmouth College Women in Science Project, National Action Council for Minorities in Engineering, Inc., New Mexico MESA, Inc., Oregon Graduate Institute of Science & Technology Saturday Academy Program, and University of Maryland Baltimore County.
September 25
In the morning, the President traveled to Pittsburgh, PA. In the afternoon, he traveled to Philadelphia, PA.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Locust Club in Philadelphia, PA. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
September 26
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee African American Leadership Council dinner in the Crystal Ballroom of the Sheraton Carlton Hotel.
The President announced the nomination of Kelly D. Johnston to the Federal Election Commission.
September 27
In the morning, the President traveled to Longview and Fort Worth, TX. In the afternoon, he traveled to Houston, TX.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic National Committee reception at a private residence in Houston, TX.
The President announced his intention to appoint Dr. Robert Schrieffer to the President's Committee on the National Medal of Science.
  