
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House)
(Rep. Blunt (R) MO and 87 cosponsors)
The Administration supports House passage of H.R. 7, which contains key elements of the President's agenda to expand charitable giving and to strengthen faith-based and neighborhood groups to help them better serve Americans in need. H.R. 7 includes a number of important provisions of the President's faith-based initiative that will strengthen America's charities and expand the important work of faith-based and grassroots groups. The Administration will continue to seek action by Congress to end discrimination against faith-based organizations that seek to work in partnership with the Federal Government in helping those in need.
H.R. 7 would stimulate more charitable giving through a number of robust tax incentives that are consistent with the President's objective to promote charitable giving across the Nation and to provide relief to taxpayers making contributions to charitable programs. The Administration will work with Congress to make these incentives as effective and robust as possible.
The Administration supports other provisions in H.R. 7 such as authorizations for maternity group homes, Social Services Block Grant transferability, and the Compassion Capital Fund.
The Administration looks forward to working with the Congress to address the Administration's concerns about certain tax provisions in the bill, to correct certain issues with tax exempt federally guaranteed obligations, and to continue to move forward this important legislation that meets our shared goal of better serving Americans in need.
Pay-As-You-Go Scoring
The Budget Enforcement Act's pay-as-you-go requirements and discretionary spending caps expired on September 30, 2002. The Administration supports the extension of these budget enforcement mechanisms in a manner that ensures fiscal discipline and is consistent with the President's budget. OMB's cost estimate of this bill currently is under development.
  