
    President Bush to Nominate Four Individuals and Appoint One to Serve as Members of His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and his intention to appoint one individual to serve as members of his administration.
The President intends to nominate Richard J. Pelz to be Alternate Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission. Pelz has served with the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation since 1995, and currently serves as the Deputy Secretary and oversees the Bureau of Public Transportation and the Bureau of Municipal Services. Before joining the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation, he was district administrator for Congressman Bill Clinger, representative of the state's fifth district. He is a graduate of Indiana University of Pennsylvania.
The President intends to nominate Anne Pope to be Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional Commission. Pope has served as Commissioner of the Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance since 1999, and was previously the Executive Director of the Tennessee Film, Entertainment and Music Commission. She is a graduate of Vanderbilt University and Samford University Law School.
The President intends to nominate David Greenlee to Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Bolivia. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has served as Chief of Mission in Paraguay since June 2000. From 1997 to 1999, he was Special Coordinator for Haiti in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. Greenlee's past assignments include service as Political Advisor to the Army Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Mission in Madrid, Santiago and La Paz and Political Officer in Tel Aviv, La Paz and Lima. He is a graduate of Yale University.
The President intends to nominate Robin Renee Sanders to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Congo. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, she has served as Director of Public Diplomacy for the Africa Bureau. Sanders has served at the National Security Council on two separate occasions, from 1989 to 1990, and from 1997 to 1999. She has also served in Washington as Special Assistant to two Assistant Secretaries of State for African Affairs. She has also served as Special Assistant for Africa, Western Hemisphere and International Crime and Narcotics for former Under Secretary for Political Affairs, Ambassador Thomas Pickering. Her past overseas assignments include service as the Chief of Political Sections in Dakar and Windhoek, political officer in Khartoum, and head of the Consular Section in Oporto. She received a bachelor's degree from Hampton University and two master's degree from Ohio University.
The President intends to appoint William Brody to be a member of the President's Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board for a two-year term. Brody has served as President of the Johns Hopkins University since 1996, and he was previously the Academic Health Center at the University of Minnesota. He earned a bachelor's degree and master's degree from Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a medical degree and doctorate degree from Stanford University.
  