
    10 Iowa State Legislators and 2 Statewide Office-holders Praise Obama's Leadership and Judgment on Iraq War
Des Moines, IA -- Iowa State Senators Rich Olive of Story City, Frank Wood of Eldridge, Representative Helen Miller of Fort Dodge and Representative Janet Peterson of Des Moines today endorsed Senator Barack Obama's Presidential campaign. Citing Barack Obama's ability to bring people together, end the Iraq war responsibly, and repair our broken health care system, these legislators agreed that Senator Barack Obama is the best candidate to turn the page on business as usual in Washington, D.C. and transform our country. Since the start of Barack Obama's campaign, a total of 10 Iowa state legislators and 2 statewide office holders -- Attorney General Tom Miller and Treasurer Mike Fitzgerald -- have endorsed his presidential candidacy."Senator Obama had the wisdom to oppose the war in Iraq from the beginning and the courage to speak out against it when other politicians wouldn't," Senator Dvorsky said. "He has spent his time in the U.S. Senate fighting to bring our troops home, and I believe he's our best hope to bring an end to the war in Iraq and start focusing on diplomatic solutions." "Through various meetings and after watching him at multiple events, it's now clear to me that Barack Obama is the candidate best equipped to truly change our country. Senator Obama has the unique ability to bring people together and find consensus on the tough issues that divide us," Senator Rielly said. "These are characteristics our country desperately needs right now. America is ready for a leader who can unite us so that together we can change the status quo in Washington, D.C. Senator Obama's integrity and ability to inspire hope to bring about real change makes me proud to give him my full support."
"Senator Obama courageously stood up against the conventional thinking in Washington, D.C. and used his good judgment to speak out against the war in Iraq before it was popular to do so," Representative Miller said. "This good judgment combined with his ability to work across the aisle and build consensus are qualities our country desperately needs in our next president. As President, Barack Obama will use that experience to end the war in Iraq and bring our troops home."
"Senator Obama has the leadership and drive to enact his health care plan that goes furthest to meet the needs of working families," Representative Peterson said. "America is ready for a leader who can bring our country together and change the way we do politics in Washington. Barack's ability to build consensus and reach across the aisle on issues such as health care are what we need to bring our country together to meet the challenges we face."
Below is a full list of the 10 state legislators who have publicly endorsed Senator Obama:
Sen. Bob Dvorsky, Iowa City
Sen. Bill Heckroth, Waverly
Sen. Tom Rielly, Oskaloosa
Sen. Steve Warnstadt, Sioux City
Sen. Frank Wood, Eldridge
Sen. Rich Olive, Story City
Rep. Helen Miller, Fort Dodge
Rep. Elesha Gayman, Davenport
Rep. Tyler Olson, Cedar Rapids
Rep. Janet Peterson, Des Moines
The following state wide office holders have also endorsed Senator Obama's presidential campaign:
Tom Miller, Attorney General
Mike Fitzgerald, Treasurer
  