
    
  McCain: "The National Security Issues Are Becoming More And More Important To American Voters, And Nobody Knows Them Like Lindsey Graham Does."
  (Duane Patterson, "Senators John McCain And Lindsey Graham On The Iran Deal And The Refugee Crisis," Hugh Hewitt Show, 09/11/15)

Alexandria, VA - Senator Lindsey Graham was joined in New Hampshire by Senator John McCain for the second time over the weekend where they discussed with voters the most pressing issues of the day. The two attended events around the state, held a joint press conference on ISIL, joined Boston Herald Radio's Morning Meeting and the Hugh Hewitt Show, and sat down for a joint-interview with Tucker Carlson from Fox and Friends Weekend. In case you missed it, check out some of the coverage the trip made over the weekend:
Graham: "I Want To Do One Thing. Destroy ISIL...[If I'm President Of The United States] We're Going To Destroy The Caliphate And Push Assad Out..."
(FOX & Friends Weekend, "Sens. Graham, McCain on resettling displaced Syrians"
FOX News, 09/12/15)

McCain: "The day that Lindsey Graham is inaugurated as President, it is going to send a chill up the spine of Mr. Baghdadi." (Morning Meeting, "Senators John McCain and Lindsey Graham on Morning Meeting, Boston Herald Radio, 09/11/15)
Union Leader: And Graham, Whom [McCain] Called 'My Partner And My Brother,' Is The Man To Fix It"
"McCain said the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks were 'a wake-up call for America,' and that as the country commemorated the 14th anniversary of that day — and the third anniversary of the attack on the American consulate in Benghazi, Libya, by Islamic extremists — the threat of terror remains. And Graham, whom he called 'my partner and my brother,' is the man to fix it, McCain said. 'In no election since 1980 will the issue of national security play a greater role (than 2016), since Ronald Reagan was elected,' McCain said. 'I think the voters and our fellow citizens in New Hampshire should examine the credentials of a candidate who has served this country for 33 years in the military, a man who took countless trips to both Iraq and Afghanistan, a man who advised Gen. Petraeus on the very sensitive issue of detainees, a man who understands the challenges. Lindsey Graham predicted every single thing that has happened because of a lack of leadership — a failure by this President of the United States.'" (Cassidy Swanson, "At St. Anselm, McCain supports Graham," Union Leader, 09/11/15)
WMUR: "[McCain] Called Graham A 'Happy Warrior' Who Will Ultimately Finish Strong In The New Hampshire Primary."
"'I believe in Lindsey Graham,' McCain said at a news conference at the New Hampshire Institute of Politics. 'I believe he has the credentials and the ability to address the problems we are facing in the world today.' He called Graham a 'happy warrior' who will ultimately finish strong in the New Hampshire primary. McCain, calling Graham "my partner and my brother," said the South Carolina Republican 'predicted every single thing that has happened as a result of a lack of leadership' by President Barack Obama." (John DiStaso, "Graham, 'Brother' McCain Warn Of Another Terrorist Attack On U.S. Homeland" WMUR, 09/11/15)
Concord Monitor: "It's The Type Of Honest Campaigning That New Hampshire Voters Are Typically Drawn To"
"The weekend was a whirlwind tour through the state for Graham and McCain. Starting the morning at St. Anselm before scarfing down a quick lunch at KC's Barbecue in Manchester and heading over to the nearby Fisher Cats Stadium in Manchester for Sen. Kelly Ayotte's annual family cookout, whose guests included Mayor Ted Gatas and television personality Joe Scarborough...Throughout the day, McCain and Graham campaigned like Maverick and Goose in Top Gun, displaying the ultimate bromance...On the trail, the two banter, razz each other and finish each other's sentences. When McCain or Graham starts recounting one of the many tales of travel (and occasional mishaps) in countries around the world, the other will frequently complain, 'You're telling the story wrong.'
"It's the type of honest campaigning that New Hampshire voters are typically drawn to...Foreign policy is one of the central issues of Graham's campaign. Graham and McCain are both known for their experience on the subject...Unlike Donald Trump, Graham offers plenty of specifics for his plans to combat issues..."
(Ella Nilsen, "In 2016, Graham looks to replicate McCain's New Hampshire success story," Concord Monitor, 09/12/15)
  