
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
•      Carol Fulp, Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations
•      Greg Nickels, Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations
•      Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations (U.S. Senator from the State of New Hampshire)
•      Senator Roger Wicker, Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations (U.S. Senator from the State of Mississippi)
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint Major General Marcelite Harris and Lt. General Arlen D. Jameson as Members of the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy. Their biographies are below.
President Obama said, "I am grateful that these accomplished men and women have agreed to serve their country in these important roles. They will be valued additions to this administration, and I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:
Carol Fulp, Nominee for Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations
Carol Fulp is the Senior Vice President of Brand Communications and Corporate Social Responsibility for John Hancock Financial headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. Prior to joining John Hancock, Ms. Fulp served as Director of Community Programming and Human Resources for WCVB, Boston's ABC-TV affiliate. She also served as Employee Relations Manager for the Gillette Company. Ms. Fulp currently serves as a trustee of the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library Foundation and as a member of the Harvard Kennedy School's Women's Leadership Board. Governor Deval Patrick appointed her to the board of directors of the Massachusetts Convention Center Authority in 2009 and Mayor Thomas Menino appointed her as a trustee to the Boston Public Library, the oldest public library in the country, in 2010. Recently, Governor John de Jongh of the U.S. Virgin Islands appointed her as a trustee of the University of the Virgin Islands.
Greg Nickels, Nominee for Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations
Greg Nickels is currently a Distinguished Urban Fellow for Living Cities, a collaboration of 22 of the largest philanthropies and financial institutions in America. In the spring of 2010, Nickels was appointed as a fellow-in residence at the Institute of Politics at Harvard University. Prior to that, he served as the 51st Mayor of the City of Seattle from January 1, 2002 through December 31, 2009 and as an elected member of the King County Council for 14 years. From 1978 to 1987, he served as legislative assistant to then-City Councilmember Norm Rice. In 2009 Nickels was elected the 67th President of the United States Conference of Mayors.
Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Nominee for Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations (U.S. Senator from the State of New Hampshire)
Senator Jeanne Shaheen was first elected to the Senate in 2008. Senator Shaheen serves as a member of the Foreign Relations Committee where she chairs the Subcommittee on European Affairs; the Energy and Natural Resources Committee; and the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee. She previously served three terms as Governor of New Hampshire, where she was the first woman elected to this post. Senator Shaheen received a B.A. from Shippensburg University in Pennsylvania and M.A. from the University of Mississippi.
Senator Roger Wicker, Nominee for Representative of the United States of America to the Sixty-fifth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations (U.S. Senator from the State of Mississippi)
Senator Roger Wicker was appointed to the Senate in 2007, following the resignation of Senator Trent Lott. Prior to that, he served in the House of Representatives from 1994 to 2007. Senator Wicker is a member of the Commerce, Science, and Transportation Committee; the Foreign Relations Committee; the Armed Services Committee; the Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committee; and the Veterans Affairs Committee. Senator Wicker received his B.A. and law degrees from the University of Mississippi. He served on active duty in the U.S. Air Force and then served in the Air Force Reserve. He retired from the Reserve in 2004 with the rank of lieutenant colonel.
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key administration posts:
Major General Marcelite Harris, Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy
Major General Marcelite J. Harris retired from the U.S. Air Force in 1997 as the highest ranking woman officer in the Air Force and the Nation's highest ranking African American woman in the Department of Defense. General Harris' distinguished career in the service included many "firsts" as she was the first woman aircraft maintenance officer; one of the first two women air officers commanding at the U.S. Air Force Academy; and the Air Force's first woman vice commander for maintenance. Her service medals and decorations include the Bronze Star, the Presidential Unit Citation, and the Vietnam Service Medal. Upon retirement from the Air Force, General Harris served NASA as the Florida Site Director and Logistics Process Owner for the company managing the Nation's Shuttle Program, United Space Alliance. She is now Treasurer of the Atlanta Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and serves as a Director on the Board of Peachtree Hope Charter School. In 1999 General Harris was awarded an Honorary Doctorate Degree from Spelman College, where she had previously earned her B.A. in Speech and Drama. She also holds a B.S. in Business Management from the University of Maryland University College.
Lt. General Arlen D. Jameson, Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy
Lt. General Arlen D. Jameson, U.S. Air Force Retired, completed his 34-year Air Force career as the Deputy Commander-in-Chief U.S. Strategic Command, Offutt AFB, Nebraska. During his career, General Jameson held a number of senior level positions related to the nuclear forces of the United States. He was the Air Force commander responsible for all U.S. intercontinental ballistic missiles and the Chief of Staff of Strategic Air Command. He conducted groundbreaking military to military visits with the commanding general of the Russian Strategic Rocket Forces. General Jameson's decorations include the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star Medal. Since his retirement from the Air Force, General Jameson has been involved in military and commercial space businesses and has served as Executive Director of the Texas Telecommunications Infrastructure Fund. General Jameson received his undergraduate degree in Business Management from the University of Puget Sound, an MBA in Business Management from The Ohio State University, and completed the Northwestern University Kellogg School of Business Program for Senior Executives. General Jameson also graduated from the National War College and attended the Harvard University Kennedy School National Security Program for Senior Executives.
  