
    Memorandum for the Secretary of Defense 
Subject: Thirteenth Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation
In addition to our support and gratitude, we owe our men and women in uniform the tools, equipment, resources, and training they need to fight and win. Our military compensation system must recognize their sacrifices and adequately and fairly reward them for their efforts and contributions. It also must encourage the next generation of men and women to answer the call to serve their fellow citizens as members of our uniformed services. Although the world and the threats to our Nation have changed over time, the structure of our military compensation system, with the exception of recent changes to military retirement, has remained largely the same.
Pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the United States, including section 1008(b) of title 37, United States Code, I hereby determine that you shall be my Executive Agent for the Thirteenth Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation, conducting the review required by section 1008(b). As directed by statute, the review should assess the principles and concepts of the compensation system for members of the uniformed services.
At a minimum, the review should:
1. assess the adequacy of military compensation and each of its underlying components;
2. determine whether the structure of the current military compensation system, as a system of basic pay, housing, and subsistence allowances, remains appropriate, or whether an alternate compensation structure, such as a salary system, would enhance readiness and better enable the Department of Defense to recruit and retain tomorrow's military force; and
3. survey the usage of Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program benefits, as well as any other supplemental sources of income or support you deem significant, by military members on active service and their families, and consider the results of the review in assessing the adequacy of overall military compensation.
As Executive Agent, you shall ensure representatives of other executive departments and agencies participate in this review, as appropriate.
DONALD J. TRUMP
  