
    Speaker of the Florida House Dean Cannon will serve as Presidency 5 Chairman
AUSTIN — Texas Gov. Rick Perry today announced his leadership team for Presidency 5 (P5), with Speaker Dean Cannon serving as chairman. Gov. Perry will participate in Florida P5 this week, including the P5 debate, CPAC and straw poll in Orlando, Fla.
"Florida is critical to the presidential nomination process, so I look forward to bringing my pro-jobs, conservative message to Florida and the Presidency 5 events," Gov. Perry said. "Floridians care about jobs, fiscal responsibility and ending Obamacare and other federal excesses. I am pleased to have the opportunity to share my record and vision for job creation and fiscal conservatism with the voters of the Sunshine State."
"Gov. Perry knows that the path to the nomination and eventually the White House goes through Florida," said Speaker Cannon. "He also knows how critical it is for Florida's grassroots leaders to get a chance to know the candidates early, which is why he is focused on this state and participating in Presidency 5."
In addition to Speaker Cannon, conservative activists John Stemberger and Pam Olsen will serve as co-chairs. Stemberger is president of the Florida Family Policy Council. Olsen is the founder and president of the Florida Prayer Network. Also serving as co-chairs are Pasco County Republican Bill Bunting, a leader in the effort to protect the second amendment, and Orange County Republican Activist Lew Oliver. Dr. A.K. Desai, CEO of Universal Health Care Group, Inc., will also serve as a co-chair and help recruit delegates.
Gov. Perry has also announced the following elected officials to serve as co-chairs: Senator Don Gaetz (R-Crestview), State Rep. Rachel Burgin (R-Riverview), State Rep. Clay Ingram (R-Pensacola), Broward County Commissioner Chip Lamarca, Miami-Dade County Commissioner Esteban Bovo and Orange County Property Appraiser Bill Donegan.
P5 will take place at the Orange County Convention Center, beginning Thursday, Sept. 22 and ending Saturday, Sept. 24. It will conclude with the Florida Straw Poll, featuring the participation of more than 3,000 Florida Republican delegates.
The presidency events in Florida have a history dating back to 1979, when Reagan won the straw poll.
For more information about Presidency 5, please visit: http://www.presidency5.com/
  