
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Catherine Allgor, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring September 27, 2014, vice John Richard Petrocik, term expired.
Eduardo Arriola, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring October 6, 2016, vice Kay Kelley Arnold, term expired.
Sara Margalit Aviel, of California, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development for a term of two years, vice Ana M. Guevara.
Daniel J. Becker, of Utah, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2013. (Reappointment)
Dana Katherine Bilyeu, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2015. (Reappointment)
Mark Francis Brzezinski, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Sweden.
Steven H. Cohen, of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2013, vice Luis D. Rovira, term expired.
Albert DiClemente, of Delaware, to be a Director of the Amtrak Board of Directors for a term of five years. (Reappointment)
James R. Hannah, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the State Justice Institute for a term expiring September 17, 2013. (Reappointment)
David Avren Jones, of Connecticut, to be a Member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 2014, vice Alejandro Modesto Sanchez, resigned.
Michael A. Khouri, of Kentucky, to be a Federal Maritime Commissioner for a term expiring June 30, 2016. (Reappointment)
Alan B. Krueger, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers, vice Austan Dean Goolsbee, resigned.
Drew R. McCoy, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring January 27, 2016. (Reappointment)
David J. McMillan, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Scott Kevin Walker.
Adam E. Namm, of New York, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Ecuador.
Susan Denise Page, of Illinois, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of South Sudan.
J. Kelly Ryan, of Maryland, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for the remainder of the term expiring September 20, 2012, vice Thomas A. Shannon, Jr., resigned.
Wenona Singel, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Jack Edwin McGregor.
Mary B. Verner, of Washington, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2012, vice Steve M. Hays, term expired.
Mary B. Verner, of Washington, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 2015. (Reappointment)
Michael James Warren, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2014. (Reappointment)
  