
    During National Ovarian Cancer Awareness Month, the First Lady and I encourage women to learn more about the common signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer. Heightened awareness of the signs and symptoms of ovarian cancer can help our mothers, wives, sisters, and friends fight this disease early, when treatment can often be more effective. My administration is also working to improve the quality and cost of care so that our loved ones have available every tool to defeat this disease.
This year alone, more than 20,000 American women will be diagnosed with ovarian cancer, and 14,000 will lose their lives to it. Early detection and proper treatment are significant factors in the battle against ovarian cancer. It is therefore imperative that women of all ages become familiar with the symptoms of ovarian cancer and the conditions that place them at an increased risk, including age, genes, and past medical history.
My administration is dedicated to confronting the challenges that hinder Americans from getting the treatment and quality of care they need to overcome cancer. Since taking office, I have eliminated burdensome regulations at a record pace, allowing researchers to more easily develop new drugs that can be approved quickly by the Food and Drug Administration. Last year, I also signed into law "right to try" legislation, which allows patients to access potentially lifesaving drugs.
As President, I firmly believe in providing Americans with the choice and freedom to make the best decisions concerning their health. My administration is ensuring patients have access to the doctors they want, the treatments they need, and the highest standard of medical care anywhere in the world. Together, we can advance our country's research capabilities, increase the quality of care, and strive to eradicate not only ovarian cancer but all forms of this terrible disease.
The First Lady and I send our support to those battling cancer, and we pause to remember all the women we have lost to this terrible disease. As one Nation, we will continue to work to find a cure so that future generations of women may live healthy, happy, and full lives, cancer-free.
  