
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following named individuals to be members of the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations for terms of 2 years:
Ross O. Doyen, president of the Kansas State Senate. He was first elected to the Kansas House of Representatives in 1958, served five terms in the House, and has been in the Senate for 12 years. Mr. Doyen served as chairman of several committees, including the Senate Ways and Means Committee, before being elected to an unexpired term as president of the senate. Mr. Doyen is president of the National Conference of State Legislatures and has served in leadership roles on the executive committee and governing boards at the Council of State Governments. Mr. Doyen graduated from Kansas State University and served in the U.S. Navy during World War II. He is married, has two children, and was born in Cloud County, Kans., on October 1, 1926.
Margaret T. Hance, mayor of the city of Phoenix, Ariz. She was elected mayor in 1975, after serving two terms as as a city councilman, including one term as vice mayor. She is a member of the U.S. Conference of Mayors' board of trustees and chairman of the Air Quality Subcommittee. In addition, she has served on the U.S. Conference of Mayors' Task Force on Aging. Mayor Hance is a member of the board of directors of the National League of Cities and is a former chairman of the NLC Transportation Policy Committee. She is serving her second term as vice chairman of the Republican Mayors and Elected Officials Caucus. Mayor Hance graduated from Scripps College, Claremont, Calif., in 1945. She is widowed, has three children, and was born in Spirit Lake, Iowa, on July 2, 1923.
James Inhofe, mayor of the city of Tulsa, Okla. He was elected mayor in 1978 and is serving in his second term. He is also currently president of the Quaker Life Insurance Co. and president of Fly Riverside, Inc. Previously Mr. Inhofe was the Republican nominee for Governor of Oklahoma in 1974; chairman, First Congressional District campaign for Senator Dewey F. Bartlett in 1972; member of the Oklahoma State Senate in 1968-76; and member of the Oklahoma House of Representatives in 1966-68. He is a member of the executive committee of the U.S. Conference of Mayors. Mr. Inhofe graduated from the University of Tulsa. He is married, has four children, and was born in Des Moines, Iowa, on November 17, 1934.
Forrest Hood James, Jr., Governor of the State of Alabama. While at Auburn University, the Governor was an All-American halfback and was selected the most valuable player in the Southeastern Conference. After graduation in 1955, the Governor played professional football in Canada. In 1958 he returned to Alabama where he worked as a construction superintendent until 1962. In that year he founded his own company, Diversified Products Corp., a manufacturer of consumer and industrial products. He is married, has three children, and was born in Lanett, Ala., on September 15, 1934.
Joseph P. Bile!t, Jr., mayor of the city of Charleston, S.C. He was elected mayor in 1975 and is currently serving in his second term. He was elected to the South Carolina House of Representatives in 1968 and served for 6 years. He was a partner in the law firm of Riley and Barr before being elected mayor. Mr. Riley currently serves on the board of directors of the National League of Cities and the advisory board of the U.S. Conference of Mayors. He is chairman of the Governor's Committee on Criminal Justice, Crime and Delinquency, and president of the Municipal Association of South Carolina. Mr. Riley graduated from The Citadel and the University of South Carolina School of Law. He is married, has two children, and was born in Charleston, S.C., on January 19, 1943.
Peter F. Schabarum, a member of the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, Los Angeles, Calif. He has served in that position since 1972 when he was appointed, while a State assemblyman, by then Governor Ronald Reagan. He was returned to office by the voters in 1974 and 1978. He currently serves on the Air Quality Management District, the Los Angeles County Transportation Commission, and is a member of the executive committee of the California Supervisors' Association. In 1967-72 Mr. Schabarum served three terms in the California Assembly. He served on the Transportation, Ways and Means, and Revenue and Taxation Committees. He graduated from the University of California at Berkeley. He is married, has three children, and was born on January 9, 1929.
  