
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following to be members of the President's Commission on Privatization:
David F. Linowes, of Illinois, is Chairman of the Commission. He has been Boechenstein Professor of Political Economy and Public Policy and professor of business administration at the University of Illinois since 1976. From 1975 to 1977, he served as Chairman of the U.S. Privacy Protection Commission. He headed economic development missions for the U.S. Department of State and the United Nations to Turkey, India, Greece, Pakistan, and Iran in the late 1960's and early 1970's.
Annelise Graebner Anderson, of California, is senior fellow at the Hoover Institution in Palo Alto. A noted economist with a Ph.D. from Columbia University, she served as Associate Director for Economics and Government at the Office of Management and Budget from 1981 to 1983.
Michael D. Antonovich, of California, is on the board of supervisors for Los Angeles County, the largest local government in the country. One of the board's top three priorities has been privatization, and since 1980 they have authorized 645 private contracts for a savings of $100 million.
Walter F. Bish, of West Virginia, is president of the Independent Steelworkers Union at Weirton Steel Corp., the largest employee-owned company in America. He recently served as a member of the Presidential Task Force for Project Economic Justice, which promoted privatization and employee ownership as an alternative to state socialism in Central America.
Sandra Mitchell Brock, of Washington, DC, is government relations adviser for Heron, Burchette, Ruchert & Rothwell. In both her current position and her former position as vice president of government affairs for Air Florida, she acted as the primary liaison between government and the private sector for each company.
Garrey E. Carruthers, Governor of New Mexico, took office in January of this year. Since that time he has established a privatization cabinet council to study privatization in State government. As former Assistant Secretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior, he led the efforts on privatization in coal leasing.
Richard H. Fink, of Washington, DC, is founder, president, and chief executive officer of Citizens for a Sound Economy. As research associate professor of economics at George Mason University, he founded, directed, and continues to chair the Center for the Study of Market Processes. An economies consultant, he testified at the U.S. House of Representatives Grace caucus hearings on privatization in February of 1986.
Melvin R. Laird, of Maryland, served as Secretary of Defense from 1969 to 1972 and as domestic adviser to President Nixon from 1973 to 1974. He also served as a Member of Congress for more than 15 years, during which time he was chairman of the Republican Conference and a member of the House Appropriations Committee.
James T. McIntyre, Jr., of Virginia, currently a partner in the DC law firm of Hansell & Post, served as Director of the Office of Management and Budget from 1978 to 1981, and as Deputy Director of OMB in 1977. He also served as director of the Office of Planning and Budget for the State of Georgia.
George L. Priest, of Connecticut, is professor of law, director of the program in civil liability, and director of the Center for Studies in Law, Economics, and Public Policy at Yale Law School. He has written a number of articles on economic policies.
Ralph L. Stanley, of New York, is senior vice president of Municipal Development Corp. From 1983 to 1986, he served as Administrator of the Urban Mass Transportation Administration.
Walter B. Wriston, of New York, is former chairman of the board and chief executive officer of Citicorp, the company which he has served since 1946. He is also Chairman of the President's Economic Policy Board.
  