
    To the Congress of the United States: 
Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), section 212(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1952 (8 U.S.C. 1182(f)), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby report that I have issued an Executive Order declaring a national emergency to deal with the threat of foreign interference in United States elections and authorizing the United States Government to impose a range of appropriate and meaningful sanctions against foreign individuals and entities determined to have engaged in election interference.
Foreign powers have historically sought to exploit America's free and open political system. In recent years, the proliferation of digital devices and internet-based communications has created significant vulnerabilities and magnified the scope and intensity of the threat of foreign interference. To deal with this threat, I have directed the Director of National Intelligence to conduct regular assessments of any information indicating that foreign election interference has taken place. I have also directed the Attorney General and Secretary of Homeland Security to conduct evaluations of the effects of any such interference that targeted election infrastructure or campaign-related infrastructure, and to provide updates and recommendations on appropriate measures to take in response.
In the event foreign election interference is determined to have occurred, the Executive Order provides for the imposition of sanctions on foreign persons determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State, to have engaged in, sponsored, concealed, or otherwise been complicit in the interference, as well as other related persons. The Executive Order further directs the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury to develop additional recommended sanctions measures, appropriately calibrated to account for the severity of the interference and any collateral effects on United States and allied financial stability and economic and security interests, targeting companies in significant economic sectors in a country whose government is determined to have engaged in or sponsored election interference.
I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.
DONALD J. TRUMP
The White House,
September 12, 2018.
  