
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama nominated David Jeremiah Barron to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit.
"David Jeremiah Barron has displayed exceptional dedication to the legal profession through his work, and I am honored to nominate him to serve the American people as a judge on the United States Court of Appeals," President Obama said. "He will be a diligent, judicious and esteemed addition to the First Circuit bench."
David Jeremiah Barron: Nominee for the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit
David Jeremiah Barron is the S. William Green Professor of Public Law at Harvard Law School and previously served as the Acting Assistant Attorney General of the Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice.
Barron received his B.A. magna cum laude from Harvard College in 1989, where he served as president of the Harvard Crimson. He then worked as a reporter for the News and Observer in Raleigh, North Carolina, from 1989 to 1991. In 1994, Barron received his J.D. magna cum laude from Harvard Law School, where he served on the Harvard Law Review. Barron clerked for Judge Stephen R. Reinhardt of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit from 1994 to 1995 and for Justice John Paul Stevens of the Supreme Court of the United States from 1995 to 1996. After clerking, Barron worked as an attorney-adviser in the United States Department of Justice's Office of Legal Counsel from 1996 to 1999.
Barron joined the Harvard Law School faculty as an assistant professor in 1999 and became a professor there in 2004. In 2009, while on leave from his faculty position, Barron rejoined the Office of Legal Counsel as Acting Assistant Attorney General. For his service, he received the National Intelligence Exceptional Achievement Medal from the Office of the Director of National Intelligence and the Office of the Secretary of Defense Medal for Exceptional Public Service. Barron returned to the Harvard Law School faculty in 2010 and was named the S. William Green Professor of Public Law in 2011. He was recently appointed by Massachusetts Governor Deval Patrick to the Massachusetts Board of Higher Education and the Massachusetts State College Building Authority.
  