
    Today, Biden for President released a batch of new ads nationally and in battleground states, including Florida, Michigan, North Carolina, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin, that address the concerns of millions of Black Americans who fear their lives are at risk under a second Trump administration. The creative is a continuation of the testimonial-style ads highlighting Black Americans discussing in their own words their experiences in Trump's America and why they support Joe Biden and Kamala Harris.
Airing nationally on television and digital platforms, the new 'Shop Talk' ad series incorporates socially distanced conversations among Black men at a Black-owned barber shop in North Carolina. The first two 30-second ads of the series, "Shop Talk Our Right" and "Shop Talk Trust" showcase Black men discussing their support for Vice President Biden and Senator Harris and trusting in their leadership to guide Americans to a better tomorrow. Both ads will air in Michigan, North Carolina and Wisconsin, with "Shop Talk Trust" airing in Florida and "Shop Talk Our Right" airing in Pennsylvania. An extended 60-second version of "Shop Talk Our Right" will air nationally.
A western Pennsylvania business owner and pillar of her respective communities is featured in a new ad that begins airing digitally today and on television tomorrow. Marimba Milliones, a Pittsburgh business owner, believes that the Build Back Better plan is a thoughtful, detailed approach to begin addressing issues that have impacted Black business owners for generations.
"This election is a defining moment for our country," she says during the ad. "We should not take for granted that things cannot get worse."
For Florida audiences, Malik Gary agreed to share his story as an essential worker living and working in Tallahassee. The 30-second ad features Malik's testimony on how despite the risks associated with COVID-19, he continues to work at the supermarket where he's employed, while also standing on the front lines of peaceful protests. He says voting for Vice President Biden and Senator Harris is the most powerful stand he can make to drive the change he feels this country desperately needs.
And, "Get This Right" highlights the Biden and Harris' criminal justice reform plan, including ending private prisons and mandatory minimums.
The latest ad release shows the campaign's continued push to reach Black voters while offering a snapshot of how different groups of Black Americans are dealing with the reality of the current moment. The ads are all part of Vice President Biden and Senator Harris' commitment to earning every vote from Black Americans and the campaign's investment in African American media, which is the largest ever for a general election campaign.
  