
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The white cane is a simple yet very useful device that enables persons with visual impairments to enjoy greater mobility and independence in their daily lives. This tool also has great symbolic value, for it is a tangible reminder of the courage, determination, and achievements of persons with disabilities.
As we recognize the accomplishments of Americans who use the white cane, it is fitting that we also recognize the importance of promoting their safety. For Americans who are not blind or visually impaired, this means taking responsibility as careful, courteous drivers and pedestrians.
Americans who use the white cane deserve not only the respect and courtesy of others but also the right to equal opporltunity. The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) that I signed 2 years ago affirmed the rights of persons with disabilities and strengthened our Nation's commitment to eliminating the physical and attitudinal barriers that, in the past, prevented these individuals from participating fully in the mainstream of American life. Today the United States is providing a model for the world as we work toward full and harmonious implementation of the ADA.
In order to ensure that every Smerican is prepared for the opportunities that life offers, we are also working through the AMERICA 2000 program to promote lifelong learning and achievement. The many Americans who have obtained training in use of the white cane have demonstrated their appreciation of the value of learning far beyond the traditional clasroom, and their efforts should challenge and inspire others.
Recognizing the importance of the white cane to Americans with visual impairments, the Congress, in 1964, by Public Law 88-628, designated October 15 of each yuear as "White Cane Safety Day" and requested the President to issue annually a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 15, 1992, as White Cane Safety Day. I encourage all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities in recognition of the interests and achievements of persons who use the white cane.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  