
    "President Obama robbed $716 billion from Medicare to pay for Obamacare — and seniors around the country will pay the price. In Florida alone, Obamacare cuts nearly $45 billion in Medicare payments, jeopardizing benefits and reducing access to care. Our nation's seniors deserve better. As president, Mitt Romney will restore President Obama's Medicare cuts and work to preserve and strengthen the program for future generations." — Andrea Saul, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
President Obama Cut $716 Billion From Medicare To Pay For Obamacare —  A Cut The Obama Campaign Now Refers To As An Achievement:
According To The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office, Obamacare Cuts $716 Billion From Medicare. (Congressional Budget Office, Letter To Speaker John Boehner, 7/24/12)


    Miami Herald: "Obama's $700 Billion Medicare-Cut Problem"(Marc Caputo, "Obama's $700 Billion Medicare-Cut Problem," Miami Herald, 8/12/12)
  

President Obama's Senior Campaign Aide Has Bragged That President Obama "Achieved" $700 Billion In "Cuts In Medicare." CUTTER: "Well, you know ask the wealthy to pay a little bit more. Cut waste from the government. Reform Medicare. More than $300 billion in savings from Medicare. On top of the savings we've already achieved. You know I heard Mitt Romney deride the $700 billion cuts in Medicare that the president achieved through health care reform." (CBS's "Face The Nation," 8/12/12)
What Did Obamacare Achieve For Florida's Seniors? The State Will Lose Nearly $45 Billion In Medicare Payments:
According To A Study From The University Of Minnesota, Florida Will Lose$44,395,960,000 In Medicare Payments Between 2013-2022 Due To President Obama's Medicare Cuts.(Robert A. Book and Michael Ramlet, "What Is The Regional Impact Of The Medicare Fee-For-Service And Medicare Advantage Payment Reductions," University Of Minnesota, 9/12)


    Dade County — Where President Obama Will Participate In A Forum Today — Will Lose More Than $6.1 Billion.(Robert A. Book and Michael Ramlet, "What Is The Regional Impact Of The Medicare Fee-For-Service And Medicare Advantage Payment Reductions," University Of Minnesota, 9/12)
  

    Hillsborough County — Where President Obama Will Campaign Tonight — Will Lose More Than $2.1 Billion.(Robert A. Book and Michael Ramlet, "What Is The Regional Impact Of The Medicare Fee-For-Service And Medicare Advantage Payment Reductions," University Of Minnesota, 9/12)
  

President Obama's Medicare Cuts Will Jeopardize Benefits For Seniors — Reducing Access To Care And Driving Millions From Medicare Advantage:
The Medicare Actuary Has Estimated 15% Of "Hospitals, Skilled Nursing Facilities, And Home Health Agencies" Will Be In The Red Before The Decade Is Over. "In the Office of the Actuary's April 22, 2010 memorandum on the estimated financial effects of the Affordable Care Act, we noted that by 2019 the update reductions would result in negative total facility margins for about 15 percent of hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and home health agencies. This estimated percentage would continue to increase, reaching roughly 25 percent in 2030 and 40 percent by 2050. In practice, providers could not sustain continuing negative margins and, absent legislative changes, would have to withdraw from providing services to Medicare beneficiaries, merge with other provider groups, or shift substantial portions of Medicare costs to their non-Medicare, non-Medicaid payers." ("Projected Expenditures Under An Illustrative Scenario With Alternative Payment Updates To Medicare Providers," Center For Medicare & Medicaid Services, 5/13/11)
52 Percent Of Doctors Say Obamacare Will Compel Them To Close Or Significantly Restrict Their Practices To Medicare Patients.(Merritt Hawkins, "Health Reform and the Decline of Physician Private Practice," The Physicians Foundation, October 2010)
Obamacare's Cuts Will Cause Enrollment In Medicare Advantage To "Plummet By About 50 Percent" And Leave Seniors With "Higher Out-Of-Pocket Costs." "In addition to flagging provider cuts as potentially unsustainable, the report [HHS] projected that reductions in payments to private Medicare Advantage plans would trigger an exodus from the popular alternative. Enrollment would plummet by about 50 percent. Seniors leaving the private plans would still have health insurance under traditional Medicare, but many might face higher out-of-pocket costs."(Ricardo Alonso-Zaldivar, "Report Says Health Care Will Cover More, Cost More," The Associated Press, 4/23/10)


    The Medicare Trustees Project These Cuts Will Drive 4 Million Seniors Out Of Medicare Advantage Plans By 2018. (Medicare Trustees Report, 4/23/12)
  

Factcheck.Org, On Medicare Under President Obama: "The Promise That 'Benefits Will Remain The Same' Is Just As Fictional As The Town Of Mayberry..." "Currently, about 1 in every 4 Medicare beneficiary is enrolled in a Medicare Advantage plan. For many of them, the words in this ad ring hollow, and the promise that 'benefits will remain the same' is just as fictional as the town of Mayberry was when Griffith played the local sheriff." (Brooks Jackson, "Mayberry Misleads On Medicare," FactCheck.org, 7/31/10)
  