
    
"[Barack Obama] talked about siding with the people, siding with the people, just before he flew off to Hollywood for a fundraiser with Barbara Streisand and his celebrity friends. Let me tell you, my friends, there's no place I'd rather be than here, with the working men and women of Ohio." -- John McCain
John McCain
Remarks
Vienna, OH
September 16, 2008
John McCain: "We've seen a telling moment in this campaign today. Senator Obama saw an economic crisis, and he's found a political opportunity. My friends, this is not a time for political opportunism; this is a time for leadership.
"Too often, we hear people say America's in decline. I reject that. I believe America's best days are ahead of us. Governor Palin and I are going to reform Wall Street. We're going to reform Washington. I'm going to fight for you, and I'm going to lead our nation forward in the greatest periods of prosperity in its history.
"And let's have some straight talk. Senator Obama is not interested in the politics of hope, he's interested in his political future and that's why he is hurling in insults and making up facts about his record.
"Today, he claimed that the Congressional stimulus package was his idea. That's news to those of us in Congress who supported it. Senator Obama didn't even show up to vote.
"He talks a tough game on the financial crisis, but the facts tell a different story. Senator Obama took more money from Fannie Mae and Freddy Mac than anyone but the chairman of the committee they answer to, and he put Fannie Mae's CEO, who helped create this problem in charge of finding his Vice President. That's not change, that's what's broken in Washington.
"He talked about siding with the people, siding with the people, just before he flew off to Hollywood for a fundraiser with Barbara Streisand and his celebrity friends. Let me tell you, my friends, there's no place I'd rather be than here, with the working men and women of Ohio. I'm going to fight for you and together we're going to win in November." 
 Watch John McCain 
  