
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




September 14, 202310:24

VP Travel Pool #1 JBA/wheels up
Hi! I'll be your VP pooler for the day. Marine Two landed at JBA at 10:18 am.
Harris disembarked at 10:21 am.
She boarded AF2 at 10:21 am and waved at the top.
AF2 will be wheels up shortly for Hampton, Va.
Some info below:
On Background From a White House Official:
Today, Vice President Kamala Harris will travel to Hampton, VA to kick off her nationwide "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour with a visit to Hampton University.
While participating in a moderated conversation with actor Terrence J, the Vice President will focus on key issues that disproportionately impact young people across America – from reproductive freedom and gun safety to climate action, voting rights, LGBTQ+ equality, mental health, and book bans. She will also highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration has delivered for young people, outline the work ahead to protect fundamental freedoms, urge attendees to register to vote, and take questions directly from students who are organizing on the frontlines of these fights. The moderated conversation will be livestreamed atwww.whitehouse.gov/live.
Additional Background on Today's Event at Hampton University:
Hampton University is an award-winning HBCU that was founded in the 1860s. Today's high-energy campus event will proudly feature several of the school's talented student groups including the Hampton University Marching Force, the Blue Thunder cheerleading squad, the choir, student D.J.s, and campus influencers. University President Darrell Williams and Student Government President Lilian Carr will also speak during the program.
Additional Background on the "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour:
Vice President Harris's "Fight for Our Freedoms" College Tour is a month-long national swing to mobilize thousands of young people in the ongoing fight for fundamental freedoms and rights. She is set to visit around a dozen campuses including Hispanic-serving institutions, community colleges, apprenticeship programs, state schools, and additional HBCUs. Following today's tour stop, the Vice President will then travel to North Carolina A&T State University in Greensboro, NC on Friday, Reading Area Community College in Reading, PA on September 19, and Morehouse College in Atlanta, GA on September 26.
Additional Background on VP Harris's work to engage with young Americans:
This college tour is a continuation of the Vice President Harris's recent nonstop travel, and comes on the heels of her Summer of Action that included visits to 17 states. She has long been dedicated to energizing, engaging, and partnering with young people throughout the country, and has consistently led on issues that are important to young people. The Vice President has already been to 11 college campuses this year after visiting 14 schools in 2022. She also regularly meets with young leaders wherever she goes – from climate leaders in Colorado to gun safety advocates in Virginia.



September 14, 202311:57

VP Travel Pool #2 Hampton U
VP arrived at Hampton University at 11:38 am. Motorcade was welcomed into campus by a group of students with pom poms and balloons.
Pool is currently in a packed, loud auditorium. Students are singing along and dancing to music.
Event will begin shortly. It will be live-streamed so I won't be sending quotes.
We landed at Newport News/Williamsburg International Airport at 11:01 am, VP deplaned at 11:15. She was greeted on the tarmac byNewport News Mayor Philip Jones. They shook hands and chatted for a few mins before she got in her car.
We motorcaded for roughly 25 mins to the university.
During the flight, VP came back for a very quick, OTR for a minute.



September 14, 202312:20

VP Travel Pool #3 remarks/overflow
VP gave quick remarks to an overflow area of students outside the auditorium. Pool estimated about 150 students, who cheered for her as she arrived at 12:12 pm. She spoke for 2 mins.
Some quick quotes:
"When I see you I know the future of our country is bright and full of promise. "
"You are everything in terms of who we are as a country and who we can and will be"
"I'm counting on your leadership."
"Many of you may be the first to do many things but make it your mission not to be the last."
She then shook hands and took some photos. "You are so beautiful!," one student shouted.
Otter link:https://otter.ai/u/FjwRpjq-dOmP0k0H7BcxxSkdAEk
We are now waiting for the event, which will be live-streamed.



September 14, 202313:49

VP Travel Pool #4 airport arrival
Event wrapped around 1:15 pm. Harris took a stage selfie after.
Motorcade was rolling at 1:22 pm and arrived at the airport at 1:41 pm.
Harris boarded the plane at 1:44 pm after taking an AF2 photo with the advance staff. Pool shouted a q about Hunter Biden's indictment.
Pool is now dropping off as VP will head to NYC from here. Second leg of her trip is closed press, so that's it from me!




  