
    Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies
As you know, I have repeatedly emphasized as a major goal of U.S. foreign policy the importance of meeting basic human needs--in particular, the alleviation of world hunger and malnutrition. In order to develop a major initiative in this area, I have formed a World Hunger Working Group headed by my Special Assistant, Peter Bourne, to coordinate a White House study of world hunger with other U.S. domestic and international food and agricultural policies. Peter Bourne, representing the Working Group, will participate on the soon to be formed Cabinet Level Committee on Food and Agricultural Policy, chaired by the Secretary of Agriculture.
The Working Group consists of Executive Office Organizations--National Security Council (NSC), Domestic Council (DC), White House Intergovernmental Relations Office (WHIGA), Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), Council of Economic Advisors (CEA), Office of Management and Budget (OMB), Office of the Special Assistant for Consumer Affairs (OSACA), Council of Environmental Quality (CEQ), and Office of the Special Representative for Trade Negotiations (STR)--as well as representation from the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA), State, Agency for International Development (AID), Treasury, and Commerce.
The purpose of the Working Group is to prepare a list of options to combat world hunger and malnutrition with the full participation of several departments and agencies. This analysis will be the basis for a Presidential statement outlining the following goals:--to provide more equitable access to available food and to improve nutritional well-being;--to increase the supply of food relative to need;--to offer food assistance to those unable to purchase enough food for adequate nutrition;--to assure a decision-making process, management, and resources adequate to implement these policies.
Departments and agencies affected by this memorandum should submit to the chairman of the Working Group their recommendations by close of business on October 21 st.
The Working Group will review the recommendations and develop a set of U.S. government policy options designed to make a significant impact on world hunger. Departments and agencies will have an opportunity to comment on the Working Group's list of options before it is submitted to me.
PICTURE CAPTION Above: Meeting with Secretary of State Vance and Soviet Ambassador A. F. Dobrynin in the Oval November 18. Left: At a ceremony in the Oval Office with Adm. Hyman G. Rickover as the Shippingport, Pennsylvania, light water breeder reactor was increased to full power production, December 2.
I would appreciate your cooperation to enable the Working Group to complete its task on or about November 11th.
JIMMY CARTER
  