
    Sanders set to hold 11 events in four days as volunteers prepare to host over 165 events across the state
DES MOINES, Iowa – Sen. Bernie Sanders' campaign on Friday announced it contacted 1 million voters in Iowa since the launch of the campaign, the most of any candidate in the state. The announcement follows the campaign's announcement on Thursday that it has received contributions from more than 1 million individual donors, making Sanders the fastest candidate in history to reach the milestone.
"Pundits in the Beltway might not believe it, but Bernie Sanders' campaign in Iowa is out-organizing the entire field, and this is all powered by the most grassroots volunteers and donors of any campaign in the country," said Bernie 2020 Iowa State Director Misty Rebik. "We've hit this mark faster than we expected, but we're not slowing down -- Sen. Sanders will hold 11 events in Iowa in the next four days and we're launching 165 organizing events statewide in the next five days."
The 1 million Iowa voter contacts have been made by the more than 25,000 Sanders organizers and volunteers in the state through phone calls, texts, door-knocking and community canvasses launched with the BERN app. Over 70% of the contacts were made through phone calls and door-to-door canvassing, where Sanders supporters engage in conversations with Iowa voters.
To reach 1 million voter contacts, Sanders organizers in Iowa have held over 1,300 organizing events since the campaign's launch. In the next five days, Sanders supporters will host over 165 "Plan to Win" parties in Iowa, where volunteers and community leaders will train with field staff on how to organize their community and build on their lead in voter outreach.
Sanders will visit Iowa again this weekend, embarking early next week on a "Bernie Beats Trump" Tour of the state through half a dozen counties that flipped for Donald Trump in 2016 after going for Barack Obama in 2008 and 2012. On the tour, Sanders will highlight how his progressive health care and economic agenda will energize and mobilize millions of voters to defeat Donald Trump and deliver fundamental change.
In addition to the "Bernie Beats Trump" tour, Sanders will host a press conference with union workers on his Workplace Democracy Plan in Davenport. At the event, rank-and-file union members from across Iowa will endorse Sen. Sanders. The union members will be the latest progressive leaders across the state to endorse Sanders, including Rep. Jeff Kurtz, LULAC State Director Nick Salazar, Dubuque City Councilwoman Kate Larson and Iowa Democratic Party Central Committee Member Emma Schmit.
  