
    On September 14, 2007, President Bush authorized the Secretary of State to transmit to Congress the annual report listing major illicit drug transit and drug producing countries (known as the "Majors List"). The report contains Presidential Determinations of the countries that have "failed demonstrably" to make substantial efforts during the previous 12 months to adhere to international counternarcotics agreements and to take measures specified in U.S. law.
In his report, the President identified as major drug-transit
or major illicit drug-producing countries: Afghanistan, The Bahamas, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Laos, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela.
The President also reported to Congress his determination that Burma and Venezuela have "failed demonstrably" during the previous 12 months to adhere to their obligations under international counternarcotics agreements and take the measures set forth in U.S. law. However, the President determined to maintain U.S. programs that aid Venezuela's democratic institutions.
The President determined that Guinea-Bissau is becoming a refuge and transit hub for cocaine traffickers from Latin America. International efforts should be supported and advanced to help Guinea-Bissau confront these illicit drug activities.
The President further determined that Bolivia is on track to eradicate 5,600 hectares of coca this year. However, these measures have been outstripped by coca replanting and expanded coca cultivation. The President expressed his concern about Bolivia's need to improve its counternarcotic results. Further, Bolivia should revamp its national drug policy to make its top priority the reduction and eventual elimination of excess coca crops.
These Determinations required the President to consider each country's performance in areas such as reducing illicit cultivation, interdiction, law enforcement cooperation, extradition, and measures to prevent and punish public corruption that facilitates drug trafficking or impedes drug-related prosecutions. The President also considered these countries' efforts to stop production and export of, and reduce the domestic demand for, illegal drugs.
  