
    October event at Bush Presidential Library will celebrate Daily Point of Light award winners, build upon United We Serve summer service initiative
WASHINGTON, D.C. — On Friday, October 16th, President Barack Obama will hold a Presidential Forum on community service hosted by former President George H.W. Bush and the Points of Light Institute at the George Bush Presidential Library Center on the campus of Texas A&M University. The event builds upon President Obama's "United We Serve" call to service challenging all Americans to help lay a new foundation for growth in this country by engaging in sustained, meaningful community service. It will also celebrate the contributions of more than 4,500 Daily Point of Light award winners and honor President Bush's legacy of service and civic engagement.
The Daily Point of Light Award – created by President Bush in 1989 – honors individuals and volunteer groups around the country who are helping to meet critical needs in their communities and creating change every day and has a bi-partisan presidential legacy over the past two decades.
President Obama's United We Serve call to service began on June 22nd and runs through the National Day of Service and Remembrance on September 11th. Service projects marking the eight year anniversary of 9/11 will take place today in all 50 states, and will include over a dozen Cabinet Secretaries and high ranking government officials. Projects range from food drives and home repairs to neighborhood cleanups and disaster preparation activities.
The National Day of Service and Remembrance was developed by 9/11 families and established into law by the Edward M. Kennedy Serve America Act, which President Obama signed in April. The most sweeping overhaul and expansion of national service programs in 18 years, the Serve America Act will triple the size of AmeriCorps and strengthen service opportunities for Americans at all stages of their lives.
For more information about the October 16th Presidential Forum on community service, please visit www.PointsofLight.org.
  