
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate three individuals to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate Delores M. Etter, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Research, Development and Acquisition). Dr. Etter currently serves as a professor for the Electrical Engineering Department at the United States Naval Academy. From June 1998 through July 2001, she served as the Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Science and Technology. During part of this time, Dr. Etter also assumed the position of Acting Director of Defense for Research and Engineering. Earlier in her career, Dr. Etter was a Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of Colorado, Boulder as well as a faculty member in Electrical and Computer Engineering at the University of New Mexico. Dr. Etter received her bachelor's and master's degrees from Wright State University and her PhD from the University of New Mexico.
The President intends to nominate Lyons Gray, of North Carolina, to be Chief Financial Officer at the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Gray is the former President of Downtown Winston-Salem Partnership. In 1989, he was appointed to the North Carolina General Assembly where he served for over 12 years. In addition, Mr. Gray served as Senior Co-Chair of the North Carolina House Finance Committee. Earlier in his career, Mr. Gray served as President of Triangle Campers, Inc. and Vice President of Intercontinental Consultants Corporation.
The President intends to nominate George J. Opfer, of Virginia, to be Inspector General at the Department of Veterans Affairs. Mr. Opfer currently serves as Deputy Inspector General at the Department of Labor. Prior to this appointment, he served as Inspector General for the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Earlier in his career, Mr. Opfer held several Senior Executive Service positions with the U.S. Secret Service. He received his bachelor's degree from St. John's University.
  