
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, Smithsonian Institution, for terms expiring September 1, 1992:
Cary Grant, a former actor, who resides in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was honored with the Life Achievement Award by the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in 1981. He was also a recipient of a Special Academy Award for contributions to the film industry given by the board of governors and peers of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in 1969. He is married and has one child. He will succeed Abe Fortas.
Alice H. Hanley, a homemaker in Greenwich, Conn. She is former vice president, corporate finance, for New York Securities Co., Inc., in New York, N.Y. She graduated from Skidmore College (B.A., 1965). She is married and has two children. She will succeed Benjamin A. Trustman.
Alice S. Marriott, vice president of the Marriott Corp. in Washington, D.C. She is married, has two children, and resides in Washington. This is a reappointment.
Dina Merrill, an actress, who resides in New York, N.Y. She is a former member of the New York State Council of the Arts and the Junior Council of the Museum of Modern Art. She is a member of the board of directors of the E. F. Hutton Group. She is married and has three children. She will succeed Kathrine Dulin Folger.
Donna Tuttle, a political consultant, who resides in Los Angeles, Calif. She is a member of the Decorative Arts Council and a member of the Alliance Board of the Natural History Museum. She is married and has two children. She will succeed Ronald H. Nessen.
Mrs. Jack Wrather, vice president and member of the board of directors of the Wrather Corp. in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mrs. Wrather, a former actress, is a member of the Alliance for Arts Education Committee for the John F. Kennedy Center and a member of the American Film Institute. She is married and has three children. This is a reappointment.
  