
    Stranded Attendees at the Burning Man Festival in Black Rock City, Nevada 
Q. Mr. President, have you heard the Burning Man news? Any reaction to that?
The President. Yes. We're in touch with the local people. We're paying attention. We ought to be getting everybody out of there. There was one death; I don't know what the reason for the death was. Okay?
The President's Travel to India and Vietnam 
Q. What—are you looking forward to your trip next week?
The President. Yes, I am. I'm——
Q. What are you hoping to achieve in India and Vietnam?
[At this point, the President gestured toward fellow churchgoers and walked closer to where reporters were standing.]
The President. I'm holding people up here. I'm holding people up.
By the way, the reason I'm here today just for 1 day—I know you—[inaudible]—I'm on vacation; I'm not. I have no home to go to. The Secret Service has torn my house up, in a good way, to make it secure. So I have no place to go when I come to Delaware except here right now. I'm only here for 1 day.
The President's Homes in Delaware 
Q. Are you homeless? Is that what you're telling us?
The President. No, I'm not homeless. I just have one home; I have a beautiful home. [Laughter] But I'm down here for the day because I can't go "home" home.
The President's Travel to India and Vietnam 
Q. What do you want to achieve in Vietnam and India?
The President. I want to—a little more coordination. I think they both want much closer relations with the United States, and that could be very helpful.
[Several reporters spoke at once.]
Q. Have you heard that Zelenskyy has replaced his Defense Minister?
The President. Pardon me?
Ukraine 
Q. Have you heard that Zelenskyy has replaced his Defense Minister?
The President. Yes.
Q. Do you have any comment?
The President. Not publicly.
President Xi Jinping of China
Q. Are you disappointed that President Xi is not going to the G-20—[inaudible]?
The President. I am disappointed, but I'm going to get to see him.
Thank you.
Q. Thank you, sir.
  