
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 2
Katherine Milner Anderson, of Virginia, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting for a term expiring January 31, 2000, vice Sheila Tate, term expired.
Barbara K. Bodine, of California, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Yemen.
Espiridion A. Borrego, of Texas, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training, vice Preston M. Taylor, Jr., resigned.
Dale Cabaniss, of Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a term expiring July 29, 2002, vice Tony Armendariz, term expired.
William Clyburn, Jr., of South Carolina, to be a member of the Surface Transportation Board for a term expiring December 31, 2000, vice J.J. Simmons III, term expired.
Hiram Arthur Contreras, of Texas, to be U.S. Marshal for the Southern District of Texas for the term of 4 years, vice Basil S. Baker.
Cardell Cooper, of New Jersey, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Elliott Pearson Laws, resigned.
Carolyn Curiel, of Indiana, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Belize.
F. Amanda DeBusk, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice John Despres, resigned.
Paula Dobriansky, of Maryland, to be a member of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy for a term expiring July 1, 1998, vice Pamela J. Turner, term expired.
Thomas J. Dodd,
of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Costa Rica.
Douglas S. Eakeley, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the Legal Services Corporation for a term expiring July 13, 1999 (reappointment).
Jacques Gansler, of Virginia, to be Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology, vice Paul G. Kaminski, resigned.
Robert Wayne Gee, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Policy, Planning, and Program Evaluation), vice Susan Fallows Tierney, resigned.
Lt. Gen. John A. Gordon, USAF,
to be Deputy Director of Central Intelligence, vice George J. Tenet.
Cheryl F. Halpern, of New Jersey, to be a member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 1999 (reappointment).
Margaret Ann Hamburg, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Peter Benjamin Edelman, resigned.
John Arthur Hammerschmidt, of Arkansas, to be a member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2000 (reappointment).
Charles N. Jeffress,
of North Carolina, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Joseph A. Dear, resigned.
G. Douglas Jones, of Alabama, to be U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama for a term of 4 years, vice Claude Harris.
Richard F. Keevey, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice John A. Knubel.
Patricia Watkins Lattimore,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Labor, vice Cynthia A. Metzler.
Victor Marrero, of New York, to be the Permanent Representative of the United States to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Harriet C. Babbitt.
Kenneth Ray McFerran, of Arkansas, to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Arkansas for the term of 4 years, vice Hugh Dinsmore Black, Jr.
Eva M. Plaza, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Elizabeth K. Julian.
Dan Reicher, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy), vice Christine Ervin, resigned.
Charles Rossotti,
of the District of Columbia, to be Commissioner of Internal Revenue, vice Margaret Milner Richardson, resigned.
Nancy H. Rubin,
of the District of Columbia, for the rank of Ambassador during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Human Rights Commission of the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, vice Geraldine A. Ferraro.
Lange Schermerhorn, of New Jersey, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Djibouti.
Brenda Schoonover, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Togo.
Charles Vincent Serio, of Louisiana, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of Louisiana for the term of 4 years, vice James V. Serio, Jr.
Michael Telson,
of the District of Columbia, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Energy, vice Joseph F. Vivona.
Scott E. Thomas,
of the District of Columbia, to be a member of the Federal Election Commission for a term expiring April 30, 2003 (reappointment).
Sally Thompson, of Kansas, to be Chief Financial Officer, Department of Agriculture, vice Anthony A. Williams.
Thomas J. Umberg, of California, to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, vice John P. Walters, resigned.
Johnny Young, of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Bahrain.
Thomas S. Foley, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Japan.
Jane G. Gould, of New York, to be Deputy Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2001 (new position).
Richard J. Griffin, of Illinois, to be Inspector General, Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Stephen Anthony Trodden, resigned.
Tadd Johnson, of Minnesota, to be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission for the term of 3 years, vice Harold A. Monteau, resigned, to which position he was appointed during the last recess of the Senate.
Gail W. Laster, of New York, to be General Counsel of the Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice Nelson A. Diaz, resigned.
Jeanette C. Takamura, of Hawaii, to be Assistant Secretary for Aging, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Fernando M. Torres-Gil, resigned.
Julia Taft,
of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State, vice Phyllis H. Oakley.
Kirk K. Robertson, of Virginia, to be Executive Vice President of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, vice Christopher Finn, resigned.
Anita M. Josey,
of the District of Columbia, to be Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice Colleen Kollar-Kotelly.
John M. Campbell,
of the District of Columbia, to be Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of 15 years, vice John H. Suda.
Submitted September 3
R. Nicholas Burns, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Greece.
Kathryn Walt Hall, of Texas, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Austria.
Tom McDonald,
of Ohio, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Zimbabwe.
Mark Robert Parris, of Virginia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Turkey.
Edward E. Schumaker III, of New Hampshire, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Trinidad and Tobago.
Submitted September 4
Raymond G. Kammer, of Maryland, to be Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, vice Arati Prabhakar.
Dale A. Kimball, of Utah, to be U.S. District Judge for the District of Utah, vice David K. Winder, retired.
R. Roger Majak, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, vice Sue E. Eckert, resigned.
Edward F. Shea, of Washington, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Washington, vice Alan A. McDonald, retired.
  