
    Visits YFP chapter prior to Louisiana HQ opening
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign announced today that Dr. Paul will speak at Louisiana State University, his first on-campus visit since the launch of his Youth for Ron Paul initiative.
The free event, which is open to the public, will take place on Friday, September 23rd at 4:00 p.m. at LSU's Union Theater, located at the intersection of Highland and Raphael Semmes Roads, Baton Rouge. To RSVP for the LSU event featuring Dr. Paul, please visit: http://www.ronpaul2012.com/lsu-event/.
Dr. Paul's address to LSU students and community-area members will occur immediately prior to his presiding over the grand opening celebration for his Louisiana headquarters, also in Baton Rouge.
Youth for Ron Paul, an initiative of the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign, launched on Wednesday, September 7th and in its first week more than 5,000 people signed up to join the campaign and get involved.
The LSU chapter of Youth for Ron Paul is one of the campaign's first sanctioned groups. LSU is a large campus with an engaged student body, and Louisiana is a primary state.
"No other Republican candidate inspires college students and young voters like Ron Paul because no other candidate has a record of consistently voting against government spending, tax increases, and bailouts for Wall Street and big corporations," said Edward King, the campaign's National Youth Coordinator.
"Ron Paul is the only candidate running for President in 2012, including President Obama, who is serious about ending the wars in Iraq, Afghanistan, and Libya. America can't afford to borrow trillions of dollars from China and other foreign countries to provide security for the world. He is the only candidate who will bring our troops home, cut spending, and balance the budget," said Mr. King.
To learn more and sign up for Youth for Ron Paul, please visit: www.youthforpaul.com and "like" the Facebook page found at: www.Facebook.com/youthforpaul.
  