
    To the Congress of the United States:
I herewith transmit amendments to Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, which I transmitted to you on July 15, 1977. Except as specifically amended hereby, Reorganization Plan No. 1 remains unmodified.
JIMMY CART`ER
September 15, 1977.
AMENDMENTS TO
REORGANIZATION PLAN No. 1 OF 1977
Prepared by the President and transmitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives in Congress assembled September 14, 1977, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 9 of Title 5 of the United States Code.
Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1977, which was transmitted to the Senate and the House of Representatives in Congress assembled on July 15, 1977, is hereby amended as follows:
A. Section 2. is amended to read:
"Section 2. Establishment of an Office of Administration.
"There is hereby established in the Executive Office of the President the Office of Administration which shall be headed by the President. There shall be a Director of the Office of Administration. The Director shall be appointed by the President and shall serve as chief administrative officer of the Office of Administration. The President is authorized to fix the compensation and duties of the Director.
"The Office of Administration shall provide components of the Executive Office of the President with such administrative services as the President shall from time to time direct."
B. Section 5. is amended to read: "Section 5. Transfers of functions.
"The following functions shall be transferred:
"A. All functions vested in the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and in the Office of Science and Technology Policy pursuant to sections 205(a) (2), 206 and 209 of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976 (Public Law 94-282; 90 Stat. 459), are hereby transferred to the Director of the National Science Foundation. The Intergovernmental Science, Engineering, and Technology Advisory Panel, the President's Committee on Science and Technology, and the Federal Coordinating Council for Science, Engineering and Technology, established in accordance with the provisions of Titles II, III, IV of the National Science and Technology Policy, Organization, and Priorities Act of 1976, are hereby abolished, and their functions transferred to the President.
"B. Those functions of the Office of Telecommunications Policy and of its Director relating to:
(1) the preparation of Presidential telecommunications policy options including, but not limited to those related to the procurement and management of Federal telecommunications systems, national security, and emergency matters; and
(2) disposition of appeals from assignments of radio frequencies to stations of the United States Government; are hereby transferred to the President who may delegate such functions within the Executive Office of the President as the President may from time to time deem desirable. All other functions of the Office of Telecommunications Policy and of its Director are hereby transferred to the Secretary of Commerce who shall provide for the performance of such functions.
"C. The functions of the Office of Drug Abuse Policy and its Director are hereby transferred to the President, who may delegate such functions within the Executive Office of the President as the President may from time to time deem desirable.
"D. The functions of the Domestic Council are hereby transferred to the President, who may delegate such functions within the Executive Office of the President as the President may from time to time deem desirable.
"E. Those functions of the Council on Environmental Quality and the Office of Environmental Quality relating to the evaluation provided for by Section 11 of the Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974 (Public Law 93-577, 88 Stat. 1878), are hereby transferred to the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.
"F. Those functions of the Office of Management and Budget and its Director relating to the Committee Management Secretariat (Public Law 92-463, 86 Stat. 770, as amended by Public Law 94-409, 90 Stat. 1247) are hereby transferred to the Administrator of General Services.
"G. The functions of the Economic Opportunity Council are hereby transferred to the President, who may delegate such functions within the Executive Office of the President as the President may from time to time deem desirable."
C. Section 7. is hereby amended to read:
"Section 7. Effective date.
This Reorganization Plan shall become effective at such time or times on or before April 1, 1978, as the President shall specify, but not sooner than the earliest time allowable under Section 906 of Title 5 of the United States Code."
  