
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 13, 1999
William B. Bader, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of State (Educational and Cultural Affairs) (new position).
Sim Farar, of California, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the Fifty-fourth Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Roger Walton Ferguson, Jr., of Massachusetts, to be Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of 4 years, vice Alice M. Rivlin, resigned.
Roger Walton Ferguson, Jr., of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a team of 14 years from February 1, 2000 (reappointment).
John F. Potter, of Maryland, to be a member of the Board of Regents of the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences for a term expiring May 1, 2005, vice T. Burton Smith, Jr., term expired.
Submitted September 14
Joshua Gotbaum, of New York, to be Controller, Office of Federal Financial Management, Office of Management and Budget, vice G. Edward DeSeve.
Joe Kendall, of Texas, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2001, vice David A. Mazzone, term expired.
Michael O'Neill, of Maryland, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2003, vice Deanell Reece Tacha, term expired.
John Hollingsworth Sinclair, of Vermont, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Vermont for the term of 4 years, vice John Edward Rouille, resigned.
John R. Steer, of Virginia, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for the remainder of the term expiring October 31, 1999, vice Wayne Anthony Budd, resigned.
John R. Steer, of Virginia, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 2005 (reappointment).
Submitted September 16
Kathleen McCree Lewis, of Michigan, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Cornelia G. Kennedy, retired.
Enrique Moreno, of Texas, to be U.S. Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice William L. Garwood, retired.
  