
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 8
Lynn S. Adelman, of Wisconsin, to be U.S. District Judge for the Eastern District of Wisconsin, vice Thomas J. Curran, retired.
Jeremy D. Fogel, of California, to be U.S. District Judge for the Northern District of California, vice Robert P. Aguilar, retired.
Thomas M. Foglietta, of Pennsylvania, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Italy.
Alphonse F. La Porta, of New York, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Mongolia.
Alexander R. Vershbow,
of the District of Columbia, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be U.S. Permanent Representative on the Council of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary.
Submitted September 9
Ernesta Ballard, of Alaska, to be a Governor of the U.S. Postal Service for a term expiring December 8, 2005, vice Susan E. Alvarado, term expired.
Robin Lynn Raphel, of Washington, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Tunisia.
Robert H. Beatty, Jr., of West Virginia, to be a member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission for the remainder of the term expiring August 30, 1998, vice Joyce A. Doyle, resigned.
Edward M. Gabriel,
of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Morocco.
Withdrawn September 9
Patricia M. McMahon, of New Hampshire, to be Deputy Director for Demand Reduction, Office of National Drug Control Policy, vice Fred W. Garcia, which was sent to the Senate on January 9, 1997.
Submitted September 10
Robert M. Walker, of Tennessee, to be Under Secretary of the Army, vice Joe Robert Reeder.
Submitted September 12
David L. Aaron, of New York, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for International Trade, vice Stuart E. Eizenstat, resigned.
Betty Eileen King, of Maryland, to be Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador.
David Satcher, of Tennessee, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice Philip R. Lee, resigned.
David Satcher, of Tennessee, to be Medical Director in the Regular Corps of the Public Health Service, subject to qualifications therefor as provided by law and regulations, and to be Surgeon General of the Public Health Service for a term of 4 years, vice M. Joycelyn Elders.
Mark Reid Tucker,
of North Carolina, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of North Carolina for the term of 4 years, vice William I. Berryhill.
  