
    Washington DC – The Clinton Campaign today announced that Miguel D. Lausell will serve as a Senior Political Advisor to the campaign on a variety of issues including international trade, telecommunications, and Latino affairs.
"As a leader, savvy businessman, entrepreneur and advocate for the Latino community, Miguel will be involved in many key facets of my campaign. He brings with him a vast expertise and wealth of experience," stated Senator Clinton. "I am pleased to have the advice and support of my long-time friend."
As a leader in the Puerto Rican community, Miguel D. Lausell has a background in international trade, environmental issues and telecommunications.
Mr. Lausell has served in many capacities including President and CEO of the Puerto Rico Telephone Company; Executive Director of the Puerto Rico Telephone Authority; a member of the Governor of Puerto Rico's Economic Strategic Council; President of the Export Policy Commission of Puerto Rico; and Undersecretary of the Department of the Treasury of Puerto Rico. He also has served as Chairman of PonceBank, a multi-billion dollar institution in Puerto Rico.
In addition, Mr. Lausell serves on various boards and committees, including the Export Policy Commission of the Economic Development Council of Puerto Rico, the National Business and Industry Advisory Council of the Emergency Broadcast System, the United States Telephone Association, and formerly the Conservation Trust of Puerto Rico. Mr. Lausell was also the first Hispanic to serve on the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
Active in national and local politics, Mr. Lausell served on the National Finance Board of the Gore 2000 Committee and served as a member of the Democratic National Committee's Leadership 2000 Board. He was also a member of the Clinton Global Initiative.
Additionally, Mr. Lausell co-chaired the Board of Directors of Hispanic PAC USA, Inc. and is on the Board of Directors for the National Governor's Association.
He received his BA from Villanova University and law degrees from the University of Puerto Rico Law School (Magna Cum Laude) as well as Harvard Law School.
  