
    ARLINGTON, VA -- The McCain-Palin presidential campaign today announced that John McCain visited the General Motors Assembly Plant in Lake Orion, Michigan today. Below are his remarks as prepared for delivery.
LAKE ORION, MICHIGAN
All: Please see John McCain's remarks as prepared for delivery at the GM Orion Assembly Plant in Lake Orion, Michigan earlier today:
"It's great to be here today with the assembly workers of this GM plant. I'm here to send a message to Washington and Wall Street: We are not going to leave the workers here in Michigan hung out to dry while we give billions in taxpayer dollars to Wall Street. It is time to get our auto industry back on its feet. It's time for a new generation of cars and for loans to build the facilities that will make them.
"These workers here are the best in the world. They are the backbone and foundation of our economy. One of our great Presidents, Franklin Roosevelt expressed this optimism even at the height of the Great Depression. He said: '˜Plenty is at our doorstep, but a generous use of it languishes in the very sight of the supply.' My friends, that is true again today. I reject the doom and gloom that says our nation is in decline. America's best days are ahead.
"We are going to fight the special interests and corruption in Washington. We are going to fight the greed and irresponsibility on Wall Street. And we are going to create prosperity for our people.
Now is the time to grow our economy. My plan does that. Senator Obama's does not. He has said in recent days that he may delay his economic plan because of the adverse impact of his tax increases. Even Senator Obama admits that the agenda he has been pushing for would hurt our economy.
"That is exactly the wrong approach. I am going to create jobs and get our economy back on its feet. I am going to lead our nation to energy independence with new technologies here in Michigan and additional drilling here at home. As President, I am going to fight for the people and workers of Michigan, and bring this economy back."
FACT CHECK: Obama Recently Said He May Delay Key Elements Of His Economic Plan -- Tax Increases -- If The Economy Remains Weak
Less Than Two Weeks Ago, Barack Obama Told ABC's George Stephanopoulos That He May Not Go Through With His Tax Increases In January If The U.S. Is In A Recession. ABC's George Stephanopoulos: "So even if we're in recession next January, you come into office, you will still go through with your tax increases?" Obama: "No, no, no, no. What I've said, George, is even if we're still in a recession I'll go through with my tax cuts, that's my priority." Stephanopoulos: "But not the increases?" Obama: "I think we have to take a look and see where the economy is. The economy is weak right now." (ABC's "This Week," 9/7/08)
In June, Barack Obama Said He May "Possibly Defer" Some Of His Tax Increases Based On The Economic Situation. CNBC's John Harwood: "Higher taxes for capital gains, for dividends, for carried interest, for high-income Americans. You embraced a lot of those policies when the economy was stronger than it is now." Obama: "Yeah, yeah." Harwood: "Even if you think those are a good idea substantively, is there reason, because of the situation we're in, to delay the implementation of any of those to avoid having a negative effect on job creation?" Obama: "Well, there's no doubt that any policies I implement are going to be based on the economic situation that I inherit from George Bush. You know, one of the things I believe in is a manager of the economy, is you should base your decisions on facts and not ideology. And so even if I'm predisposed to a certain set of policies, I'm going to want and see what's going on at the moment and ask a wide range of viewpoints from situations..." Harwood: "So you can see the possibility of deferring some of those?" Obama: "Some of those you could possibly defer." (CNBC's "Your Money, Your Vote: McCain Vs. Obama," 6/10/08)
  