
    The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsements of Annapolis Mayor Ellen Moyer and more than 30 mayors, legislators and community leaders.
"Hillary Clinton knows how to work through the system and bring about the change this country needs," said Mayor Moyer. "She has the strength and experience to do the job from her first day in the White House, and those are the qualities we need."
"Two words sum up the reasons for my support of Hillary Clinton: toughness and experience," said Delegate Ben Barnes. "For almost two decades, she has stood in the face of the Republican attack machine, not just holding her ground, but fighting back for us. That toughness and resilience, coupled with her years of experience fighting for health care, the environment and working people, make her the clear choice to be our next President."
"Hillary's commitment to education reform and universal pre-K, coupled with her strength and experience, will set this country back on the right path," said Nancy Navarro, President of the Montgomery County Board of Education.
"I'm honored to have the support of these local leaders from across Maryland," Clinton said. "With their help, we will continue to grow our grassroots organization throughout the state."
MARYLAND LEADERS ENDORSING HILLARY TODAY:

Senator Rona Kramer, Montgomery County
Delegate Ben Barnes, Prince George's and Anne Arundel Counties
Delegate Jane Lawton, Montgomery County
Delegate Shirley Nathan-Pulliam, Baltimore County
Delegate Doyle Niemann, Prince George's County
Former Delegate Pauline Menes, Anne Arundel and Prince George's Counties
Former Delegate Juanita Miller, Prince George's County
Montgomery County Board of Education President Nancy Navarro
Annapolis Mayor Ellen Moyer
Brentwood Mayor Bettyjean Bailey-Schmiedigen
Colmar Manor Mayor Diana Fennell
Somerset Mayor Walter Behr
Takoma Park Mayor Kathy Porter
Former Greenbelt Mayor and Prince George's County Councilmember Richard Castaldi
Brentwood Vice Mayor and Councilwoman Marlene Robinson
Baltimore City Councilmember Rochelle 'Rikki' Spector
Brentwood Councilmember Margaret Terry
Bladensberg Councilmember Charlina Watson
Bowie Councilmember Todd Turner
Chesapeake City Councilmember Tracy Sampson
Edmonston Councilmember Tracy Farrish
Glenarden Councilmember Antoinette Watson
Hyattsville Councilmember Mark Matulef
Laurel Councilmember Gayle Wellford Snyder
Somerset Councilmember Lesley Anne Simmons
Former Cottage City Commissioner Anna Marie Angolia
Former Berwyn Heights Councilmember Regina McNeill
Debra Carter, Former Assistant Secretary, Maryland Department of Transportation
Lt. Colonel Alphonso Hawkins, Deputy Director, Maryland Natural Resources Police
Dennis Felton, Football Coach and Activist, Prince George's County
Partha Pillai, Activist, Prince George's County
Michael Eaves, Activist, Harford County

  