
    WASHINGTON, D.C.-Rand Paul for President today announces U.S. Congressman Mick Mulvaney (R-SC) as its Eastern States Co-Chairman. With this announcement, Congressman Mulvaney will join a growing list of congressional representatives, such as Reps. Raúl Labrador, Cynthia Lummis and Congressman Thomas Massie, in support of Senator Rand Paul for President of the United States in 2016. Sen. Rand Paul is the first Republican presidential candidate of this cycle to receive an endorsement from a member of the South Carolina delegation.
Mick Mulvaney was elected in November, 2010, as U.S. Congressman for South Carolina's 5th District. A lifelong Carolinas resident, he attended Georgetown University where he graduated with honors in International Economics, Commerce, and Finance and later attended law school at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill on a full academic scholarship. Mulvaney completed his formal education at Harvard Business School's OPM program in 2006.
Mulvaney has broad business experience across many fields. After practicing law following graduating law school, he started his own law firm. Later, he ran the family real estate business then started a small homebuilding company. Mulvaney was also a minority shareholder in a restaurant franchise company, and even owned and operated his own restaurant. He has used his educational, professional, and business background to bring a focus on jobs, business, and the economy to his work in Congress. Congressman Mulvaney currently serves on the House Financial Services Committee as well as the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.
"I am honored to have the support of Congressman Mulvaney in my run for the presidency. Since taking office in 2010, Congressman Mulvaney and I have grown to be personal friends, as we are both staunch defenders of the Bill of Rights," Sen. Rand Paul said. "I admire his conservative leadership in the House of Representatives and together, I know we can defeat the Washington Machine by restoring fiscal sanity, the Bill of Rights, and regulatory restraint."
"I'm proud to endorse Senator Rand Paul for President. Rand has proven himself as a conservative outsider unafraid to take on the Washington establishment. I look forward to spending some time with him in South Carolina and working to spread his message of small government and fiscal conservatism. Rand is exactly the kind of leader we need in the White House," said Congressman Mick Mulvaney.
Following this formal announcement, Sen. Paul and Congressman Mulvaney will embark on an endorsement tour throughout South Carolina. Details of the tour can be found below.
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 2015

WHAT: Stand with Rand Meet and Greet
TIME: 10:30am ET
WHO: Sen. Rand Paul and Congressman Mick Mulvaney
WHERE: American Legion, 199 S. Cherry Road, Rock Hill, SC 29732
WHAT: Students for Rand Rally
TIME: 2:00pm ET
WHO: Sen. Rand Paul and Congressman Mick Mulvaney
WHERE: University of South Carolina- Russell House, 1400 Greene Street, Columbia, SC 29208
WHAT: Stand with Rand Meet and Greet
TIME: 5:00pm ET
WHO: Sen. Rand Paul and Congressman Mick Mulvaney
WHERE: RJ Rockers Brewing Company, 226-A West Main Street, Spartanburg, SC 29302
  