
    President George W. Bush today has nominated nine individuals and announced his intention to appoint six individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President has nominated Daniel V. Speckhard, of Wisconsin, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Greece. Mr. Speckhard currently serves as Special Advisor at the United States Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq. Prior to this, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission at the United States Embassy in Baghdad. Earlier in his career, he served as Director of Policy Planning for the Secretary General of NATO. Mr. Speckhard received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of Wisconsin.
The President has nominated Thomas F. Stephenson, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Portuguese Republic. Mr. Stephenson currently serves as a Partner at Sequoia Capital. Prior to this, he served as President of Fidelity Ventures. Earlier in his career, he served as a Securities Analyst at Fidelity Management Company. Mr. Stephenson received his bachelor's degree from Harvard University, his master's degree from Harvard Business School and his JD from Boston College Law School.
The President has nominated the following individuals to be Members of the Millennium Challenge Corporation:
William H. Frist, of Tennessee, (Recommended by the Minority Leader of the Senate), for a three-year term;
Kenneth Francis Hackett, of Maryland, (Recommended by the Majority Leader of the Senate), for a two-year term.
The President has nominated the following individuals to be Representatives of the United States to the 62nd Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
William Delahunt, of Massachusetts;
George E. Pataki, of New York;
Ted Poe, of Texas.
The President has nominated the following individuals to be Alternate Representatives of the United States to the 62nd Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
Kelly G. Knight, of Kentucky;
Rodger D. Young, of Michigan.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts for six-year terms expiring 09/01/13:
Judith Ann Eisenberg, of New Jersey;
David Girard-diCarlo, of Pennsylvania;
C. Michael Kojaian, of Michigan;
Donna Garff Marriott, of Maryland;
William C. Powers, of California;
Joseph E. Robert, Jr. of Virginia.
  