
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Howard R. Elliott of Indiana to be Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, Department of Transportation. Mr. Elliott is a forty-year veteran of the U.S. freight rail industry, serving over the last decade as group Vice President of Public Safety, Health, Environment and Security for CSX Transportation in Jacksonville, FL. His portfolio of responsibility included hazardous materials transportation safety, homeland security, railroad policing, crisis management, environmental compliance and operations, occupational health management and continuity of business operations. He is a pioneer and leading advocate in developing and implementing computer-based tools to assist emergency management officials, first responders, and homeland security personnel in preparing for and responding to a railroad hazardous materials or security incident. He is a recipient of the Association of American Railroads prestigious Holden-Proefrock Award for lifetime achievement in hazardous materials transportation safety. He is a graduate of Columbia Southern University and Indiana University, where he received the first ever Distinguished Alumni Award from the Department of Criminal Justice and is a current member of the IU College of Arts and Sciences Executive Dean's Advisory Committee.
Paul Trombino III of Wisconsin to be the Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, Department of Transportation. Mr. Trombino is currently the President of McClure Engineering Company, a civil engineering company focused on transportation, aviation, water, and structures projects. Mr. Trombino served as the Director of the Iowa Department of Transportation from 2011 to 2016, where he was responsible for the planning, design, construction, and operation of 9,400 miles of highways, 4,300 bridges, the modal programs of transit, rail, aviation, motor vehicle services which included driver and vehicle services, and motor carrier services and enforcement. Mr. Trombino served as the 2015-2016 President of the American Association of State Highway Transportation Officials and as the 2016 Vice-Chair of the Transportation Research Board Executive Committee. Mr. Trombino has a bachelor of science degree in civil engineering from the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee and bachelor of science degree in economics from the University of Wisconsin-Madison. He is a licensed professional engineer in the states of Iowa and Wisconsin.
-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Nomination of William Wehrum to the Environmental Protection Agency
William L. Wehrum of Delaware will serve as Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, Air and Radiation. Mr. Wehrum is a partner and the head of the Administrative Law Group at Hunton & Williams. Mr. Wehrum's practice focuses on air quality issues including regulatory development and related litigation, compliance counseling and enforcement defense, legislative advice, and permitting. Prior to joining Hunton & Williams, Mr. Wehrum served for two years as Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. He has a B.S. in chemical engineering from Purdue University and a J.D. from Widener University. Mr. Wehrum is a member of the District of Columbia bar.
  