
    [1.] LUTCER (9:54 a.m.)
Thank you very much, Henson. And before I make any remarks, may I introduce to you my bride, Betty Ford. Congressman Moore, Congressman Treen, Senator Thurmond, distinguished members of my Cabinet, distinguished guests, the skipper of this great ship, Doc Hawley:
Ladies and gentlemen, Betty and I are delighted to be in Louisiana, in Lutcher, and in Gramercy.
In Kansas City I said that I would not concede a single State, I would not concede a single vote. I said I would campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia. We are going to be in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida, and we are going to win.
Let me thank you from the bottom of my heart for your warm and wonderful welcome, on behalf of both Betty and myself. We are delighted to be here in the South. As I said, we are delighted because I want to talk affirmatively about what we are going to do and what we have done in the last 2 years.
Your President believes that the Federal Government spends much too much money. Your President tried to cut the rate of growth of Federal spending by 50 percent. We made a little headway. But in the next 4 years, we will do even better, so you can have more money in your pocket and not in the Federal Treasury.
I believe that by holding the rate of spending down, we can give to the taxpayers of this country the kind of tax reform that makes sense. It makes sense to you. And that is why I recommended a $28 billion tax decrease with an increase in the personal exemptions from $750 to $1,000, so you will have more of your hard-earned cash in your pockets.
All of you, I know, from talking to Congressman Dave Treen and Congressman Henson Moore, that you are as concerned as I am that the United States be strong militarily. Let me say that in the 2 years that I have been your President, I have recommended to the Congress the two strongest military budgets in the history of this Nation. And we are going to keep America number one, period.
One way we have tried to hold down the spending of the Federal Government is to veto 56 [58] bills passed by the Congress. Forty-two of those vetoes have been sustained, and we have saved you, the taxpayers of this country, $9 billion. And I might add a postscript: The Vice-Presidential candidate on the other side, who is a big spender, has voted to override every veto that I have made, which proves, without any doubt, he is the biggest spender in the United States Senate.
On the Fourth of July, we had a wonderful celebration of America's 200th birthday. We have had a tough 2 years. We were divided. We have healed those divisions, and America today has a new spirit, a new spirit that has given us the capability to move out of our troubles into brighter skies.
Now we have some new problems to solve to improve the quality of our lives: a job for everybody who wants to work, a house for everybody who will work and save so he can have that home in a decent neighborhood, the best health care in the world, the solution to the problem of crime, and greater opportunities for recreation. Those are the visions and the goals of all of us in Lutcher, in Gramercy, in Louisiana, in Michigan, California, and in Texas.
We have the greatest form of government in the history of mankind. I have faith in the character and the strength of the American people. And if we work together, then we can have the brightest 100 years ahead of us this country has ever had.
Thank you. I want your vote.
I want to thank the Governor's wife, Elaine Edwards, who has, and I am proud to say, indicated publicly that she thinks President Ford will be a good President for the next 4 years. I thank you, Elaine. I thank you from the bottom of my heart, and I will prove it to you in the next 4 years.
[2.] RESERVE. (11:12 a.m.)
Thank you very much, Henson. But before I acknowledge all of you and some of the wonderful guests on board, I would like to introduce two wonderful ladies--first, my wife, Betty Ford. And now may I introduce to all of you wonderful people from Louisiana the wife of your great Governor, Elaine Edwards-Elaine? I thank Elaine very, very much for her personal endorsement. I am very grateful, and I have told her in the next 4 years we won't let her and the State of Louisiana down.
We have some wonderful people on board. We have Congressman Henson Moore, Congressman Dave Treen, Senator Strom Thurmond. We have two members of my Cabinet and a number of other people, not only from Louisiana but from Alabama, from Mississippi, from Florida, Tennessee, Arkansas, Texas. We have some wonderful people here who have come with me to carry out a promise that I made that I don't concede a single State, I don't concede a single vote. I promised that I would campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy plains of the State of Georgia. I am in Louisiana, Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida to prove that we can win on November 2.
Now let me tell you why I think we will win. Since I became your President 2 years ago, we've had some tough times. We had to restore trust in the White House. We had to turn the economy around from inflation of over 12 percent to where it is now, under 6 percent. And it is going to get better with the kind of policies we have. We had to extricate ourselves from Vietnam, keep the peace through our military superiority and our diplomatic skill.
But let me talk about some of the bread and butter issues that interest you. I believe that the Federal Government spends too much of your tax dollars. In order to reduce Federal spending, I vetoed 56 [58] bills sent to me by the Congress. They have sustained 42, and we saved $9 billion of your tax money. And that's progress.
I might add that Senator Mondale voted to override every one of the vetoes that I sent hock to the Congress. He is a big spender and way left, and we don't want him as Vice President.
But I also think that what we ought to have is another tax cut. I recommended that the Congress give to the American people a $28 billion tax reduction so that you would have more money that you worked hard to earn for your family, your children, your wife. The Congress unfortunately only gave us half a loaf. And I promise to you that in January of next year, when I am sworn in as the next President of the United States, we will recommend another tax reduction.
All of us from wherever we come in the United States are very interested in our national security. Yes, we have peace, we're not drafting anybody anymore. But we have to keep our Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps unsurpassed by anyone. We must keep America number one, and we will under a Ford administration.
On the Fourth of July, I know you celebrated in Louisiana, like we did all over the country, the 200th birthday of this great country. In the last 2 years, as I said, we have had a tough time. But because of the form of government that we have, because of the strength and character of the American people, we have turned the ship of state around, and we are now headed upstream so that we can have a better America in the next 4 years and in the next century. We need your help. We need your help in the next 4 years so that we can have that better America when we celebrate our 300th birthday.
I am delighted to be in Reserve. I am delighted to be in Louisiana. And I love the warm welcome that you've given to Betty and me. We will be down there to shake hands and to indicate to you our appreciation for all of you coming out. But let me ask you one favor. On November 2, vote for Jerry Ford and Bob Dole.
Thank you.
[3.] DESTREHAN (1:54 p.m.)
Thank you very, very much, Congressman Dave Treen, Congressman Henson Moore, Senator Strom Thurmond, Governor lira Edwards of South Carolina-we have two of my Cabinet officers, Secretary of Agriculture Earl Butz and Secretary of the Treasury Bill Simon.
Let me say to all of you before I make any observations and comments, I have two beautiful, wonderful ladies with me that I would like to introduce to you on this occasion. First, my bride, Betty Ford. And now, the wife of your great Governor Edwin Edwards, Elaine Edwards--Elaine? And, of course, we have Dave Treen's wife, Dody.
When I made an acceptance speech in Kansas City a few weeks ago, I said that I would not concede a single State, I would not concede a single vote, that I would campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy soil of Georgia. I have come to the State of Louisiana, and we are going to Mississippi, Alabama, and Florida. We are coming down here to prove that we want the South to be with us.
And Betty and I thank all of you for coming out on a Saturday afternoon to give us a wonderful Louisiana welcome, and we're deeply grateful for your hospitality and the friendship and the warmth of your welcome.
But let me talk for just a minute, if I might, about why you and myself and millions and millions and millions of other Americans should be together on November 2.
In the first place, we believe that the Federal Government is spending much too much of your tax dollars that you have worked so hard to earn. As your President for the last 2 years, I have imposed restraints on the expenditures from the Federal budget. We cut 50 percent in the rate of growth of Federal spending, and we would have done far better if we had had a cooperative Congress.
As many of you know, I vetoed 56 [58] spending bills by the Congress; 42 of them have been sustained by a combination of good Republicans and sound Democrats. And the net result is, we have saved $9 billion of your tax dollars that you worked so hard to earn.
Let me add just a footnote: We might have sustained another veto or two if we had gotten any cooperation from Senator Fritz Mondale, who wants to be Vice President. Let me tell you a secret: He has voted to override every veto that I have sent back to Congress. Do you want him as your Vice President?
But let's talk about taxes. A few months ago I sent to the Congress a proposal to cut your Federal income taxes by $28 billion, which would mean, as an example, that when you file your income tax return next April, instead of having a personal exemption of $750, under the President Ford proposal you would have had $1,000 personal exemption. Isn't that what you want? And if you have a family of four, you could have an additional $1,000 personal exemption. That's the kind of tax reform that this administration is for, and we are going to get it. If we don't this year, we're going to get it next year.
I know of the great historical tradition of the people of Louisiana. You believe in a strong national defense. You believe that the United States must be number one in the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and Marines. Since I've been President, I have submitted to the Congress the two largest military budgets in the history of this country, in either peacetime or war. And let me say, as long as I am President, this country is going to have a military capability second to none. We are going to be number one and stay there.
On the Fourth of July, this country had a tremendous 200th birthday anniversary. From Alaska to Florida, from Maine to California, from Louisiana to Michigan, everybody felt good, because in the last 2 years we have healed our divisiveness, we have all come together with a great hope, with a good vision about the future of America.
That means a good job for everybody who wants to work. That means a home for every family that wants to work and save. That means the best medical care that we can give to our people. That means freedom on the streets from crime. That means an opportunity for all of us to enjoy the blessings of our national parks and recreation areas. But it also means that we are at peace. And the United States is strong enough to maintain the peace, and we are diplomatically skillful enough to keep the peace. This is the vision, this is what we want as all Americans in all 50 States, and we are going to get it under the Ford administration.
Now, Betty and I love being here in Destrehan, in St. Charles Parish, and in the great State of Louisiana. We look forward to coming down and shaking hands with as many of you as we possibly can, to look you in the eye and say hello and express our friendship for you.
But let me ask you, if I could--November 2 is a very critical date. It makes the difference whether America is going to keep moving. I want your vote on that day so America will keep moving and have a better America for all of us. Thank you very much.
[At this point, the President left the SS Natchez to greet the people assembled at the ferry landing, The President then returned to the riverboat and continued his remarks as follows:]
A final word to not only thank all of you but to express our deepest appreciation for your friendship.
As I was walking up that hill and as I stand here now, I can't help but notice that tremendous grain elevator. I know that farmers in the Middle West have produced a great grain crop this year. I can tell you we are going to increase our exports. I can tell you that the part you play here in this area in our exports is very vital.
Let me say with all the production that we have, we're not going to have any grain embargoes, period. And we are doing our best to fight the battle for a responsible grain inspection bill, and we'll do the best we can to try and help those who have done a good job in the past.
Thank you very much.
[4.] NEW ORLEANS (5:18 p.m.)
It's wonderful to come here to New Orleans after a tremendous day. And I want to thank Congressman Dave Treen, Congressman Henson Moore. I would like to thank Senator Strom Thurmond, who is on board, Governor Jim Edwards of South Carolina, former Governor Kennon of Louisiana, and former Governor Griffin of Georgia.
I like that sign, "Georgians for Ford."
It is great to have on board here the next Congressman from this area, Bob Livingston.
But I have two favorite girls of mine alongside of me on board. First, I'd like to introduce to you my bride, Betty Ford. And it's been a great privilege and pleasure for us to have on board all day long the very attractive, beautiful wife of the Great Governor of the State of Louisiana, Elaine Edwards.
At Kansas City, in my acceptance speech, I made the statement that I would not concede a single State, that I would not concede a single vote, that we were going to carry the campaign from the snowy banks of Minnesota to the sandy plains of Georgia.
Today, we've been in Louisiana; tomorrow, we go to Mississippi and Alabama, and then we end up in Florida. This campaign on this weekend has been by car, by airplane, and then we've had this wonderful experience of going down the Mississippi in the finest riverboat in the country today, the Natchez. And I thank the crew and everybody.
It must be perfectly obvious that I want to win in Louisiana, and from every reception that we have gotten--the three stops--has been tremendous. And I want to thank all of them, through you, for the warm, warm welcome given to Betty and myself.
Let me tell you why I think we can win Louisiana. All of you know that when I became President in August of 1974 this country was in deep trouble. The American people had lost faith in the White House. We were suffering inflation of over 12 percent, and we were on the brink of a serious economic recession. And we were still deeply involved in Vietnam. We had troubled times. And in the last 2 years, we have turned that ship of state around.
It's taken a little longer than I wanted--and I'm sure you wanted--but look at the progress that we've made. Instead of inflation over 12 percent, it's under 6 percent. Instead of losing jobs, we have gained 4 million jobs in the last 17 months, and we are going to get more and more in the future. And I won't be satisfied until every person who wants to work will get a job and a good job.
We are out of the war in Vietnam. We have the peace, and we have an all-volunteer military force, and we are going to keep it that way. And we have the military capability and the diplomatic skill to continue the peace.
But let's talk for a few minutes, if I might, about what we want to do in the future. In the next 4 years, in the first 4 years of our third century, we want a job, as I said a moment ago, a good job for everybody who wants to work. I promise that we will get an additional 2,500,000 jobs each year in order to satisfy the young people coming into the labor market.
Our second objective is to make it possible for every family, particularly the young who want to save and buy a home, to have a home in a decent neighborhood.
Some of us are deeply concerned, as you are, about the crime rate in this country, but we've made some progress. Two years ago, the crime rate was 18 percent. Last year it was 9 percent, and for the first 6 months of this year the crime rate is 3 percent, and that's a lot of progress. And we can take some credit for it, and we will.
In the next 4 years, we will increase the educational opportunity for young people; we will make our health facilities and services much more available. There is no reason whatsoever why anybody should go broke in this country to get well. And they won't under the Ford administration.
I've been talking about the quality of life, and that's what we want to give to our country in the months ahead.
Let me take one quick minute to talk about some things we have tried to do that I think give you some concrete indication of what we are going to do in the future.
Less than a year ago, I recommended a $28 billion tax decrease, 75 percent for the individual taxpayers and 25 percent for business. Included--and this is what is meaningful to you--I recommended that we increase the personal exemption from $750 to $1,000. And for a family of four that means a tax saving (deduction) of $1,000. The middle-income people have been shortchanged, and under the Ford administration we are going to give them the equity they deserve.
Let me thank you all. Just a comment or two about our long-range goal and future.
On the Fourth of July, we had a tremendous, exhilarating experience. We celebrated our 200th birthday. The length and the breadth of this country there was a new spirit, a new vision.
I think because we have the character of our people, because we have the kind of government that is surpassing any kind in the history of mankind, we have the opportunity to give to our children and our children's children the blessings that we inherited from our predecessors.
And I pledge to you that the first 4 years of this next century under a Ford administration will open the floodgates to blessings that we haven't had, blessings that we can get, blessings for a better America.
That's what this administration is all about, and that's why I want your vote November 2. We need it. We can carry Louisiana, and we can win the election.
Thank you very much.
  