
    The following list contains releases of the Office of the Press Secretary that are neither printed as items nor covered by entries in the Digest of Other White House Announcements.
Released September 25
Transcript of remarks by Gov. Mario Cuomo of New York at the Bethel A.M.E. Church in Harlem, New York
Fact sheet on U.S. assistance to the Russian Federation
Released September 26
Transcript of a press briefing by U.N. Ambassador Madeleine K. Albright on the 49th Session of the U.N. General Assembly
Statement by Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers on the President's invitation to Crown Prince El-Hassan bin Talal of Jordan and Foreign Minister Shimon Peres of Israel to meet with him at the White House on October 3
List of suspended U.S. unilateral sanctions on Haiti and a statement by President Jean-Bertrand Aristide of Haiti
Fact sheet on U.S. policy on a landmine control regime initiative
Released September 27
Statement by Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers on the Presidential decision directive establishing a security policy board to assure more cost-effective and efficient U.S. security policies, practices, and procedures
Statement by Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers and fact sheets on the U.S.-Russian commercial agreements on trade and investment
Transcript of a press briefing by U.S. Trade Representative Mickey Kantor on the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
Transcript of a press briefing by Secretary of State Warren Christopher on the President's discussions with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia
Released September 28
White House statement extending President Clinton's and Russian President Boris Yeltsin's condolences on behalf of the American and Russian people to the families of the victims of the ferry disaster in the Baltic Sea.
Joint U.S.-Russian statement in support of the Timan Pechora Project
Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the Government of the Russian Federation on Cooperation and Mutual Assistance in Customs Matters
Announcement on the U.S.-Russian agreement on mutual customs assistance
Fact sheet on the Joint Statement on Principles and Objectives for the Development of Trade, Economic Cooperation, and Investment
Announcement on the crime assistance package for the Russian Federation
Released September 29
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers
Statement by Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers on the President's meeting with Deputy Prime Minister for Foreign Affairs Dick Spring of Ireland
Released September 30
Transcript of a press briefing by Press Secretary Dee Dee Myers
  