
    Mitt Romney today welcomed the support of Michigan Senate Majority Leader Randy Richardville (R-Monroe), who will serve as a Co-Chair of the Romney campaign in Michigan.
"Michigan will be a critical state during the Republican nomination process, as well as the General Election, and I'm honored to have Majority Leader Richardville join my team," said Mitt Romney.
"I am pleased to support Mitt Romney for president. I've had the opportunity to talk with Mitt specifically about Michigan and he clearly understands the challenges our state faces and his personal connections to our state will ensure that Michigan will be on his mind in the White House," said Richardville. "Mitt's background as a conservative businessman and successful Governor will make him a president we can count on to help Michigan get back on track."
Michigan Attorney General Bill Schuette, chairman of the Michigan Romney campaign, welcomed the addition of Majority Leader Richardville saying, "We are assembling a leadership team here in Michigan for Governor Romney that is second-to-none. Randy has exhibited strong leadership in the State Senate, sharing Governor Romney's focus on jobs and the economy, and he will be a valuable asset as we win Michigan for Mitt Romney."
In addition, the Romney campaign announced the support of the following Michigan business and community leaders:
National Finance Co-Chairmen

John Rakolta, Jr.
G. Scott Romney

Michigan Finance Co-Chairmen

David Fischer
Dan Gilbert
John Kennedy
Alan Kiriluk
Matt Kiriluk
Bob Liggett
Joe O'Connor
Bill Parfet
Edward Schwartz
Walter Schwartz
Greg Schwartz, Sr.
Robert Taubman
Edward Levy

Michigan Finance Committee Members - Southeast Michigan

Sean Cotton
John Cotton
Bill Danhof
Vince Deangelis
Kenneth Eisenberg
Phillip Fisher
David Forbes
Doug Hamburger
John Jagger
Joe Kaiser
Dean Kiriluk
Quinn Kiriluk
Curt Korneffel
Rob Mardigian
Kevin Prokop
John Rakolta III
Joe Schwartz
Gregory Schwartz, Jr.
David Trott

Michigan Finance Committee Members - West Michigan

Mike Jandernoa
Marge Byington Potter
Paul Potter
John Van Fossen
Carol Van Andel
David Van Andel
Jim Jurries
Bob Burnham

Background On Senator Majority Leader Randy Richardville:
Randy Richardville was elected to the Michigan Senate in November, 2006. Upon re-election in 2010, he was selected as Senate Majority Leader. Prior to his election to the Senate, Randy spent three terms in the Michigan House of Representatives from 1999-2004. He held a leadership position in the House in each of his terms.
Prior to being elected to office, Randy worked in the business community – with 20 years of experience in Fortune 500 companies.
  