
    Following another winning debate performance and an electrifying convention speech, Booker earns third state senate endorsement
Booker has now earned 82 endorsements in the state -- more than any other 2020 candidate
Manchester, NH — New Hampshire State Senator Martha Hennessey (Hanover), a leading progressive voice in the Granite State, today announced her endorsement of Cory Booker for president. Hennessey is just the fifth state senator to endorse a 2020 candidate, but the third to endorse Booker.
"After years of Trump's hatred and division, this election is about how we can heal our country. I believe Cory Booker is the right candidate to take on this critical challenge," said State Senator Martha Hennessey. "Cory has spent his entire career tackling the biggest problems and getting results. Just look at how he led on criminal justice reform -- the only major, bipartisan bill signed under Trump.
"After spending time with Cory in the Upper Valley, seeing him inspire at the convention in Manchester and watching him show a command of the issues and deliver a unifying message on the debate stage once again, I'm proud to endorse Cory for president. Cory will motivate the voters we need to turn out in 2020, and, as president, repair the damage of the Trump years and make justice and opportunity real for every American."
Hennessey has been a leader on gun violence prevention and has also focused on the opioid crisis; funding full-day kindergarten; increasing access to health care; protecting women's reproductive rights; instituting paid family leave and boosting awareness and education around sexual and domestic assault.
Hennessey represents Senate district five, which includes the Upper Valley cities and towns of Lyme, Hanover, Lebanon, Enfield, Canaan, Plainfield, Cornish, Claremont, and Charlestown. Prior to being elected to the Senate, she served in the New Hampshire House of Representatives.
Hennessey is the latest state elected official to back Booker in the 2020 primary. Booker has earned a total of 82 Granite State endorsements -- more than any other 2020 candidate -- including three state senators, 12 state representatives and the state's longest-serving mayor. Earlier this year, state Senators Jon Morgan (Brentwood) and David Watters (Dover) became the first two state senators to back a candidate when they endorsed Booker.
  