
    In Lead-up to NHDP Convention, Weatherspoon and Lett Are Latest Members of New Hampshire Democratic Party Leadership To Support Harris
In the lead-up to the New Hampshire Democratic Convention, the Honorable Jackie K. Weatherspoon, Co-Chair of the New Hampshire Democratic Party African American Caucus, and Brenda Lett, Secretary of the New Hampshire Democratic Party African American Caucus, are endorsing Senator Kamala Harris. Weatherspoon, a former New Hampshire State Representative and Minority Whip in the Statehouse, is a lifelong advocate for human rights and justice. She works closely with the United Nations and is a member of the Advisory Committee at the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
"As the co-chair of the New Hampshire Democratic Party's African American Caucus, I know very well how important this primary and election are. We have lived through nearly three years of one of the most challenging presidencies in modern history, and we must put the best candidate forward to lead our country in the right direction," said The Hon. Jackie K. Weatherspoon, Co-Chair of the NDHP African American Caucus. "After thinking long and hard about who to support in this year's primary, I have decided that Kamala Harris is the absolute best candidate to tackle our nation's most pressing problems. On issues of importance -- healthcare, criminal justice reform, and gun violence -- Harris has clear-eyed and realistic plans, and a record to back them up. On issues of human rights, something I have worked on my entire career, Harris' vision and background is a cut above the rest and charts a clear path forward," Weatherspoon continued. "Perhaps most importantly, Harris' experience, optimism, and toughness makes her the best candidate we have to beat Donald Trump and has inspired countless young Americans to feel hopeful again. I am thrilled to announce my support of her candidacy and will work as hard as I can to help her campaign."
Lett and Weatherspoon are the latest New Hampshire Democratic Party leaders to announce their support of Harris. Pam Jorgensen, the Co-Chair of the New Hampshire Democratic Party Senior Caucus previously endorsed, as well as members of State House leadership including State Rep. Patty Cornell, State Rep. Jane Beaulieu, and State Rep. Linda Tanner. Former Chairman of the New Hampshire Democratic Party Joe Keefe has also thrown his support behind Harris.
  