
    Instead of providing the American people his list of potential Supreme Court nominees, Biden chose to spread falsehoods
BIDEN: "It's estimated that 200 million people will die [from coronavirus] probably by the time I finish this talk."
FACT: Joe Biden grossly overstated the death toll from the coronavirus, saying nearly two-thirds of the U.S. population would be dead.

Biden overstated the death toll by a factor of 1,000.
The U.S. has a lower case-fatality rate than dozens of other nations including neighboring Canada and Mexico and many nations in Europe including the UK, Sweden, Belgium, France, and Germany.
The overall fatality rate has fallen by 85 percent thanks to lifesaving therapies and treatments.
Daily coronavirus deaths have declined by 25 percent since August.

BIDEN: "We can't keep rewriting history, scrambling norms, and ignoring our cherished system of checks and balances. That includes this whole business of releasing a list of potential nominees that I would put forward."
FACT: Biden's ignoring that he pledged to release a list of potential nominees back in June.

In June, Biden announced that his campaign was "putting together" a list of potential Supreme Court nominees, and that it would later release the list.

Biden even seemed to confirm that his campaign had already started "vetting" potential nominees.?


Now that a vacancy has occurred, the Biden campaign has reversed, saying he will not release a list and depriving the American people the chance to see the nominees Biden is considering.

BIDEN: "After Ruth Bader Ginsburg passed away, they said Biden should release his list. It's no wonder the Trump campaign asked that I release the list only after she'd passed away. It's a game for them. It's a play to gin up emotions and anger."
FACT: Biden is flat out wrong; for months, President Trump and his campaign have been calling on Biden to release his list of potential Supreme Court nominees to the American people.

On June 20, President Trump said that "Biden can't release his list because the names would be too extreme, too radical."
On September 9, after President Trump released his new list of potential nominees, the Trump campaign called on Biden to release his list and highlighted that he had so far refused to do so.
On September 9, President Trump said "Joe Biden has refused to release his list" because his potential picks are "extremely far left."
On September 17, the day before Ginsburg's passing, the campaign again highlighted that Biden would not say who he would nominate to the Supreme Court.

BIDEN: "And by the way, there's no court session between now and the end of this election."
FACT: Biden is flat-out wrong; the first arguments of the Supreme Court's new term begin the first Monday of October.

On September 16, the Supreme Court announced that when the new term begins in October, the Justices will hear oral arguments by phone.
The first arguments of the fall 2020 term begin on Monday, October 5th.

  