
    After Years Of Controversial Comments And Gaffes, Vice President Biden Gets Bumped From Prime Time
Tonight, Vice President Joe Biden Will Address The Democratic Convention – "But Not In Prime Time":
Vice President Joe Biden Will Speak Tonight "But Not In Prime Time." "Remember Joe Biden? He'll be speaking tonight at #dnc2012. But not in prime time." (Jim Roberts Twitter Feed, 9/6/12)
Who Did The Obama Team Think Was Important Enough For A Prime Time Slot? A Law School Graduate, A Mayor, A Senate Candidate, And Costco's Founder:
Georgetown Law Graduate Sandra Fluke Spoke In Prime Time Wednesday Night. (Democratic National Convention, Accessed 9/6/12)
Costco Founder Jim Sinegal Spoke In Prime Time Wednesday Night. (Democratic National Convention, Accessed 9/6/12)
San Antonio Mayor Julian Castro Spoke In Prime Time Tuesday Night. (Democratic National Convention, Accessed 9/6/12)
Senate Candidate Elizabeth Warren Spoke In Prime Time Wednesday Night. (Democratic National Convention, Accessed 9/6/12)
Why Did The Obama Team Not Want Vice President Biden In Prime Time? Maybe It's His History Of Gaffes:
"Biden's History Of Gaffes, Of Course, Is Long, Storied, And Infinitely Entertaining." (John Heilemann, "Joe Biden Isn't Finished," New York Magazine, 9/2/12)
Vice President Biden "Has Made A Sport" Of Referring To President Obama's Botched Oath Of Office, Referred To Women Lacrosse Players As "Gazelles," And Made Fun Of President Obama's Teleprompters. "Just in his current job, he has made sport of John Roberts's botched job in administering the oath of office to Obama (drawing the stink eye from the president) ... referred to women lacrosse players as 'gazelles,' to a Wisconsin custard-shop manager as a 'smartass,' to a candidate for the House as a candidate for the Senate, to the Irish prime minister's living mother as deceased, to the current century as the twentieth, to tea-party Republicans as 'terrorists,' ... made fun of Obama for his reliance on teleprompters..." (John Heilemann, "Joe Biden Isn't Finished," New York Magazine, 9/2/12)
And Last Week, Vice President Biden Greeted Greek Americans By Calling Himself "Joe Bidenopoulos." "The vice president strode into a local restaurant here with a message for the Greek-Americans enjoying their lunch: 'I'm Joe Bidenopoulos.'" (Jennifer Epstein, "VP: 'I'm Joe Bidenopoulos,'" Politico, 8/31/12)

Vice President Biden Referred To Himself As "The Most Greek Irishman He's Ever Known." "'Ask George,' he told some men gathered around a table at the Mocha House. It was unclear who George was, maybe someone at the table, but it was clear that the vice president was talking about himself when he said something about 'the most Greek Irishman he's ever known.'" (Jennifer Epstein, "VP: 'I'm Joe Bidenopoulos,'" Politico's "44," 8/31/12)

Vice President Biden "Raised Eyebrows" When He Made Divisive Remarks Claiming Republicans Wanted To Put Voters "In Chains." "Vice President Biden raised eyebrows today when he referred to the Republican party as wanting to put voters in chains. ... 'Every Republican's voted for it. Look at what they value and look at their budget and what they're proposing. Romney wants to let the — he said in the first hundred days he's going to let the big banks once again write their own rules, 'unchain Wall Street.' They're going to put y'all back in chains.'" (Jake Tapper, "VP Biden Says Republicans Are 'Going To Put Y'all Back In Chains'," ABC News, 8/14/12)
Vice President Biden Was Caught On An Open Microphone Calling Obamacare A "Big [Expletive] Deal." "After introducing Obama at Tuesday's health-care bill signing ceremony, Vice President Biden turned to the president and said, 'This is a big [expletive] deal.'" (Rachel Weiner, "Biden To Obama: 'A Big [Expletive] Deal'," The Washington Post, 3/23/10)
By A 38 Percent To 23 Percent Margin, Voters In A Recent Survey Had A Negative Response When Asked To Describe Vice President Biden. "In a Pew Research Center/Washington Post survey released Wednesday, respondents were asked to use one word to describe Biden. Thirty-eight percent chose a negative term, while only 23 percent used a positive one, and 39 percent came up with a neutral response, according to Pew." (Scott Conroy, "GOP Sees Biden As A Boon, But Dems Stand By Him," RealClearPolitics, 9/6/12)
  