
    Mr. President and Mrs. Kufuor and family members; members of the Cabinet; Mr. Vice President; Members of Congress; distinguished guests: Thank you all for coming. Laura and I are really happy to host you tonight. And we're particularly happy to host President Kufuor and Mrs. Kufuor. After all, we were in their country last February, and it was a unbelievable visit in spite of my lousy dancing. [Laughter] Mrs. Kufuor was my partner, and she can testify to my lousy dancing. [Laughter]
The memories of the trip will always stay with us, Mr. President. It was a great experience. You're the President of a country of such great potential, and you're President of a country of such wonderful people.
We really do want to—I hope you relax tonight for this special evening. After dinner we'll go out to the Rose Garden for a—interesting entertainment.
John and I will be joining the ex-Presidents club in a couple of months. [Laughter] But I am confident we have left behind an enduring relationship between our two countries. We are—we've worked hard to help the people of Ghana. Because of his integrity and because of his leadership, I was confident in proposing the Millennium Challenge Account for the country of Ghana.
We're working hard to fight disease together. In this room are compassionate people who care deeply about the citizens of your country, John. And we want to thank you for your compassion and thank you for coming. We care deeply about the education of people all across the globe. John, you've helped your people build a thriving democracy, where the rule of law is respected. And as well, you've taken a leadership role on the continent of Africa.
I thank you for your wise counsel and your judgment on how the United States can work to promote peace. I really have greatly enjoyed serving with you in an historic era. I have confidence that the next Presidents of both our countries will be able to work together.
In the meantime, I offer you a toast. I wish you all the best in your retirement. I have loved being in your presence. And so a toast to the President, and his gracious wife Theresa, and the people of Ghana.
  