
    Pool Reports by Tarini Parti, The Wall Street Journal 



Sent:
Reports:




September 23, 202211:34

In-Town Pool #1 check-in
Hello! I'm your print pooler for the day. POTUS has two public events on the sched today (including the Elton John concert!):
EDT
8:00 AM THE PRESIDENT receives the President's Daily BriefingClosed Press
11:30 AM In-Town Pool Call Time
12:25 PM THE PRESIDENT departs the White House en route Democratic National Committee eventNorth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool (Gather 12:00 PM – Stakeout Location)
12:30 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at a Democratic National Committee eventNational Education Association Headquarters, Washington D.C.In-Town Travel Pool
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks at a Democratic National Committee eventNational Education Association Headquarters, Washington D.C.In-Town Travel Pool
1:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Democratic National Committee event en route the White HouseNational Education Association Headquarters, Washington D.C.In-Town Travel Pool
1:50 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseNorth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool
8:00 PM THE PRESIDENT and THE FIRST LADY host and deliver remarks at a musical performance by music legend and global humanitarian, Sir Elton JohnSouth LawnIn-House Pool (Gather 7:20 PM – Palm Room Doors)
Briefing Schedule
2:30 PM Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre



September 23, 202212:01

In-Town Pool #2 gather
Pool gathering to leave for DNC event.



September 23, 202212:45

In-Town Pool #3 Rolling
Motorcade rolling at 12:44 pm for DNC event at NEA.



September 23, 202212:48

In-Town Pool #4 Arrival/travelers
Motorcade arrived at the NEA at 12:47 pm.
FYI since this is a political event, remarks won't be live-streamed on the WH website but should be on CSPAN
https://www.c-span.org/video/?523136-1/president-biden-remarks-democrati...
Also, per WH:
Traveling with the President by motorcade en route National Education Association Headquarters:

Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Michael Donilon, Assistant to the President & Sr Advisor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Emmy Ruiz, Assistant to the President & Director of Political Strategy & Outreach
Kimberly Gahan, Special Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security Council Legal Advisor & Associate Counsel
Christopher Meagher, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Press Secretary
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President and Trip Director
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic Planning




September 23, 202213:08

In-Town Pool #5 POTUS speaking
POTUS started speaking to a packed auditorium at 1:07 pm.
(Sorry didn't get a 2 min warning)
It's an open DNC event so won't send everything but will send a few quotes.
Before he began, the crowd chanted "Biden" "Union" "Strong." An NEA member introduced Biden and spoke about student debt relief, abortion and an assault weapons ban.
Some watched from a balcony behind a railing that was covered in handmade pro-Biden signs.



September 23, 202213:37

In-Town Pool #6 POTUS remarks
He spoke for roughly 35 mins. Pool ushered out 1:36 pm. Crowd chanted "Joe" as he wrapped.
No major news but he did respond to McCarthy's platform announced today. Please check against transcript. It was hard to hear in the room at times.
POTUS opened by listing issues that were on the ballot in November. "There's heck of a lot at stake," he said. He listed social security, gun control, "the survival of our planet" and "democracy itself."
He said the MAGA Republicans control the Republican Party.
Responded to McCarthys plan announced today, said "we didn't hear a mention of the right to choose" and then added social security.
Biden said Republicans would pass a ban on abortion if they won in Nov. "I will veto it," he said.
Biden said Justice Alito said the right to choose was in the hands of women. "He ain't seen nothing yet," he added.
He said Republicans want to put up every benefit, including social security, up for a vote every year.
He criticized McCarthy for saying Republicans wanted to keep America safe. "Every single Republican in Congress voted against it," he said of the ARP.
On Jan. 6, he said: "The MAGA republicans didn't side with law enforcement. They sided with insurrectionists."
He touted the economic progress under his administration, pointing to job creation including manufacturing jobs and new small business.
On inflation, he pointed to the global pandemic and Putin's war in Ukraine. And said the recently passed legislation which includes lowering prescription drug prices would give Americans some breathing room.
"When it actually comes to doing something about inflation, Republicans said no."
He criticized the tax plan under Trump and then whispered that Democrats "brought down the deficit." "So I don't want to hear from Republicans"
Biden said "thanks to" the deficit reduction, he was able to cancel some student loans. "its a game changer."
He said that not accepting the results of the 2020 presidential election has "become a litmus test" for republicans pledging their loyalty to Trump.
"You can't love your country only when you win," he said.
The backdrop behind POTUS said: "Building a Better America"



September 23, 202214:04

In-Town Pool #7 Motorcade
Motorcade rolling back to the WH at 2:04 pm.



September 23, 202214:08

In-Town Pool #8 WH arrival
Motorcade arrived back at the WH at 2:07 pm.
We drove past a pretty lively immigration rally that had signs for TPS. Lots of people were gathered on street corners through our drive downtown to see the motorcade.



September 23, 202214:14

In-Town Pool #9 briefing delayed
Per WH, briefing will now start at 2:45 pm.



September 23, 202214:49

In-Town Pool #10 Two mins
Two min warning for briefing called at 2:48 pm.



September 23, 202215:44

In-Town Pool #11 Briefing wraps
Press briefing ended at 3:44 pm



September 23, 202217:01

In-Town Pool #12 dinner lid
We have a dinner lid until 7:20 pm



September 23, 202219:23

In-Town Pool #13 gathering for Elton
Pool gathering for the concert at 7:21 pm



September 23, 202219:37

In-Town Pool #14 waiting for concert
Pool is now in the south lawn, where there are supposed to be about 2,000 people tonight.
Many are already seated under a tent. Others are still streaming in. A screen, which currently reads "A Night When Hope And History Rhyme," is set up on one side.
POTUS is scheduled to give remarks around 8 pm.



September 23, 202220:03

In-Town Pool #15 concert program/attendees
Lot of info here from the WH:
Background on tonight's performance by Sir Elton John:
The President and First Lady are hosting a musical performance by music legend and global humanitarian, Sir Elton John, on the South Lawn of the White House this evening, September 23, 2022. In collaboration with A+E Networks and The History Channel, the event, titled "A Night When Hope and History Rhyme," will celebrate the unifying and healing power of music, commend the life and work of Sir Elton John, and honor the everyday history-makers in the audience, including teachers, nurses, frontline workers, military families, mental health advocates, students, LGBTQ+ advocates and more.
Tonight's performance has been organized in collaboration with, and is being paid for by, A+E Networks and The History Channel.
Speaking Program

Paul Buccieri, President & Chairman of A+E Networks Group
Athen White, Director of Youth Development & Community Engagement, Supporting and Mentoring Youth Advocates and Leaders (SMYAL)
The First Lady
The President

Musical Performance

Sir Elton John

Approximately 2,000 people will be in attendance, including the following notable attendees (in alpha order):

Ruby Bridges, a civil rights advocate, who at six years old became one of the first Black children to integrate New Orleans' all-white public school system
Paul Buccieri, President and Chairman of A+E Networks
Former First Lady Laura Bush
Leah Michael Dillard, from Denver, Colorado, has been a 7th grade English teacher for 20 years.
Members of the DC National Guard and their families
Students from the Duke Ellington School of the Arts
David Furnish, Chairman of the Elton John AIDS Foundation, and husband of Sir Elton John
Javier Gomez, from Miami, Florida, is a student and LGBTQ+ advocate. When his governor passed a law targeting the LGBTQ+ community, he led a school walk out to help students show their voices matter.
Billie Jean King, tennis champion and equality advocate
Vickie Lancianese, from Mt. Hope, West Virginia, is an essential worker whose husband worked in coal mines for 40 years.
Dr. Amber Pearson, from Weaverville, North Carolina, was the first person in her family to go to college. She works as an audiologist for veterans and their families.
British Ambassador to the United States,Dame Karen Elizabeth Pierce, Lady Roxburgh
Athen White, director of SMYAL, a non-profit organization that empowers LGBTQ+ youth. (Introducer of the President and First Lady)
Jeanne White-Ginder, the mother of Ryan White, who lost his life to AIDS-related complications on April 8, 1990, one month before his high school graduation.
Claire Williams, from Robbinsville, New Jersey, a teacher for 25 years.
Malala Yousafzai, education activist and the winner of the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize
Additionally, in the audience, from across the country are nurses, teachers, transit workers, LGBTQ+ advocates, grocery store workers, mental health hotline operators, military families, youth mental health advocates, high school and college students.

Cabinet members scheduled to be in attendance (in alpha order):

Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin
Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona
Attorney General Merrick Garland
Secretary of Homeland Security Ali Mayorkas
Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo
Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers Ceci Rouse
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack
Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh
Director of the Office of Management and Budget Shalanda Young

Members of Congress scheduled to be in attendance: 

Speaker Nancy Pelosi (CA-12)
Senator Patrick Leahy (VT)
Senator Bob Casey (PA)
Senator Chris Murphy (CT)
Senator Shelley Moore Capito (WV)
Senator Amy Klobuchar (MN)
Senator Chris Coons (DE)
Senator Ed Markey (MA)
Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI)
Sen Brian Schatz (HI)
Rep. Sean Patrick Maloney (NY-12)
Rep. Scott Peters (CA-52)
Rep. Mark Takano (CA-41)
Rep. Ed Perlmutter (CO-07)
Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12)
Rep. Pete Aguilar (CA-31)
Rep. Michael McCaul (TX-10)
Rep. Anthony Brown (MD-04)
Rep. Kweisi Mfume (MD-07)
Rep. David Trone (MD-06)

Previous musical performances at the White House to date:

St Augustine Choir, February 2021
Jennifer Nettles, July 4, 2021 performance
Patti LaBelle, Christmas Tree Lighting, 2021
Billy Porter, Christmas Tree Lighting, 2021
H.E.R., Christmas Tree Lighting, 2021
Keb' Mo,' Christmas Tree Lighting, 2021
Howard Gospel Choir, Christmas Tree Lighting, 2021
Andrea Bocelli, PBS In Performance at The White House
Matteo Bocelli, PBS In Performance at The White House
Virginia Bocelli, PBS In Performance at The White House
Norah Jones, PBS In Performance at The White House
Camila Cabello, PBS In Performance at The White House
Billy Porter, PBS In Performance at The White House
Eric Church, PBS In Performance at The White House
Jonas Brothers, PBS In Performance at The White House
Pentatonix, PBS In Performance at The White House
Northwell Health Nurse Choir, PBS In Performance at The White House
Andy Grammer, July 4th 2022 performance
Cairde, dancers who performed for St. Patrick's Day Reception 2022
Flor de Toloache, taped performance for Hispanic Heritage Month 2021
Patricia Treacy, Irish Violinist who performed for St. Patrick's Day Reception 2022
James and Kim Taylor, performed at IRA celebration in 2022




September 23, 202220:22

In-Town Pool #16 2 mins to POTUS
WH gave a "long 2 min" warning to POTUS remarks at 8:18 pm.
Dr. Biden speaking now.



September 23, 202220:31

In-Town Pool #17 POTUS remarks
Biden started speaking at 8:24 pm. His remarks were live-streamed. No news.
He wrapped at 8:28 pm.
A video now rolling with people talking about Elton John and his impact. Concert to follow.



September 23, 202221:22

In-Town Pool #18 concert/ medal
Sir Elton John began with some quick remarks at 8:36 pm. Music followed. Opening track was "Your Song," then "Tiny Dancer," "Rocketman," "Don't Let the Sun Go Down on Me," "Crocodile Rock." He closed with "I'm Still Standing."
Wrapped at 9:15 pm.
Biden then went up on stage and announced he was giving Elton John the National humanities medal. "I'm never flabbergasted but I'm flabbergasted," John said. He got teary while thanking the president.
The Bidens then waved and left the stage.
During the concert, the crowd stood up and clapped and cheered after every song. Pool was too far back to have an eye on POTUS during the concert.
Elton John spoke about AIDS funding in between songs and ending AIDS by 2030. He thanked former President George W. Bush and Laura Bush (who was in attendance) for their work on the issue and recalled a story in which he talked to Bush backstage at an event who told him he needed the French "to give more (F-ing) money."
"I just wish America could be more bipartisan,"he said.



September 23, 202221:49

In-Town Pool #19 lid
WH called a lid at 9:48 pm.
Have a good weekend!




  