
    The following listing includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the White House Press Office and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 13
The President met at the White House with Zbigniew Brzezinski, Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs.
September 17
The President met at the White House with:
—David L. Aaron, Deputy Assistant for National Security Affairs;
—the Democratic congressional leadership;
—Frank B. Moore, Assistant to the President for Congressional Liaison;
—Roy Orr, president of the National Association of Counties;
—Ambassadors Ephraim Evron of Israel and Ashraf Ghorbal of Egypt, Foreign Minister Yitzhak Shamir of Israel, and Kamal Hassan Ali, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Egypt.
In a ceremony in the Oval Office, the President, Honorary Chairman of Boys' Clubs of America, presented the Clubs' 1980 Boy of the Year award to Jace L. Smith, 17, of Massilion, Ohio.
The President announced that he is withdrawing the nomination of Fred D. Gray to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Alabama, at Mr. Gray's request.
The White House announced that, based on relevant laws and Executive orders, the Attorney General and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency have been asked to investigate the matter of a forged document, labeled Presidential Review Memorandum/NSC-46, dated March 17, 1978, concerning black Africa and the U.S. black movement, which was circulated to members of the press on September 16.
September 18
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Congresswoman Elizabeth Holtzman of New York;
—Mr. Moore;
—representatives of the International Association of Operating Engineers.
The President announced that he will nominate Robert Alan Frosch, Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, for the rank of Ambassador while he serves as Head of the U.S. Delegation to the United Nations Outer Space Conference, to be held in 1982.
September 19
The President met at the White House with:
—Dr. Brzezinski;
—Secretary of State Edmund S. Muskie, Secretary of Defense Harold Brown, Deputy Secretary of State Warren M. Christopher, Lloyd N. Cutler, Counsel to the President, and Dr. Brzezinski;
—a group of consumer advocates;
—guitarist Chet Atkins;
—Olin Robinson, Head of the U.S. Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy, who presented the Commission's 2-year report to the President;
—Paul A. Volcker, Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Secretary of the Treasury G. William Miller, Charles L. Schultze, Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, James T. Mcintyre, Jr., Director of the Office of Management and Budget, Alfred E. Kahn, Advisor to the President on Inflation.
The President left the White House for a stay at Camp David, Md.
  