
    Governor Romney On Fox News' "Fox & Friends" (9/18/07):
Fox News' Gretchen Carlson: "In the meantime, you are steamed about one Ahmadinejad, and he's about ready to come to New York and give another speech before the U.N. General Assembly. I find this unbelievable as well, but why are you so steamed about it?"
Governor Mitt Romney: "Well, the Secretary General of the U.N. invites Ahmadinejad to come speak to the General Assembly and you have a person who has spoken of genocide, has spoken of eliminating Israel, another member nation. It's an individual who is pursuing nuclear technology and announced just yesterday that he would provide that technology to other nations and groups that are confronting the West. So we're talking about massive proliferation of nuclear weaponry throughout the Middle East. And this is a person who then is invited to the U.N. That's absolutely the wrong course we should take. Instead, he should be indicted under the Genocide Convention. There is a genocide convention which says that if people have incited to genocide, they should be indicted. This is a person who should be shown to be a complete outlier in the world, an outcast, such that the people in Iran recognize that they've got a loony who is running their country, and that they distance themselves from him and his positions."
Fox News' Steve Doocy: "It's not surprising that the United Nations would invite a loony, as you say, because they've invited a lot of loonies over the years."
Governor Romney: "No question about that. This one perhaps rises to a level that we haven't seen in a long time because not only has he said the things I've just described, he's also provided funding which is being used to hurt our troops in Iraq and he has provided funding and resources for Hezbollah, which is a terrorist organization and has killed many, many people throughout the world. So, this guy talks about it, he does it, and now he's seeking nuclear weapons."
To watch Governor Romney address Iran, please see: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H4GGxIsvA5M
The Washington Times: Governor Romney "Rightly Expressed Outrage At Mr. Ahmadinejad's Presence In New York."
The Washington Times Editorial: "Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney has rightly expressed outrage at Mr. Ahmadinejad's presence in New York, pointing out in a letter to Mr. Ban that the despot is supporting Hezbollah's terrorist efforts, flouting the international community through his nuclear weapons program and supporting Shi'ite militia extremists in Iraq. Mr. Romney commendably called on the United States to reconsider its participation in the U.N. should the body continue to act as a toothless overseer when it comes to Iran." (Editorial, "Ahmadinejad At The U.N.," The Washington Times, 9/18/07)
  