
    "This was supposed to be a big week for President Obama. Instead, his nominating convention was embarrassed by a nasty floor fight, his acceptance speech fell flat, and for the 43rd straight month, unemployment came in over 8%. As President Obama limps into the weekend, it's certain that this is a week he'd rather forget." – Amanda Henneberg, Romney Campaign Spokesperson
Friday Saw A "Dismal" August Jobs Report Come Out That Overshadowed Any Other News:
The Hill's Alicia Cohn: "Dismal August Jobs Report..." "White House Economic adviser Alan Krueger said Friday that despite a dismal August jobs report, 'we see a pattern that the economy's continuing to heal.'" (Alicia Cohn, "Obama Adviser: 'Recoveries Have Ups And Downs'," The Hill, 9/7/12)
The Associated Press' Julie Pace And Donna Cassata: "Bleak New Report On The Nation's Unemployment..." "His convention over, President Barack Obama ran smack into the harsh reality of a bleak new report on the nation's unemployment outlook Friday."(The Associated Press, 9/7/12)
The Washington Post's Michael Fletcher: "U.S. Job Creation Grew At A Distressingly Slow Pace In August..." "U.S. job creation grew at a distressingly slow pace in August, as employers added just 96,000 new positions and more discouraged people stopped looking for work, the Labor Department reported on Friday." (The Washington Post, 9/7/12)
Bloomberg's Michael McKee: "This Is Not A Good Report... The Labor Force Appears To Be Losing Steam..." "Across the board, this is not a good report when you are coming at it from the perspective of the Federal Reserve. First of all, the revisions to the prior months, we saw July and June revised lower again. June had already previously been revised down. So, the labor force appears to be losing steam, or at least the idea that companies hiring." (Bloomberg, 9/7/12)
But It Wasn't As If President Obama's Speech On Thursday Night Received Anywhere Close To Rave Reviews:
The Daily Beast's Michael Tomasky: "Let's Be Blunt. Barack Obama Gave A Dull And Pedestrian Speech Tonight..." "Let's be blunt. Barack Obama gave a dull and pedestrian speech tonight, with nary an interesting thematic device, policy detail, or even one turn of phrase." (Michael Tomasky, "Obama: A Pedestrian And Overconfident Speech," The Daily Beast, 9/7/12)
Political Commentator Charles Krauthammer: "One Of The Emptiest Speeches I Have Ever Heard On A National Stage." "Fox News contributor Charles Krauthammer slammed the address as 'one of the emptiest speeches I have ever heard on a national stage.'" (Kevin Cirilli, "TV Pundits Split On Obama Speech," Politico, 9/6/12)
CNN's Peter Hamby, Ashley Killough And Paul Steinhauser: "This Was His Third Nationally Televised Convention Speech, And It Was Unquestionably His Most Underwhelming." "But here is the burden of being Barack Obama: This was his third nationally televised convention speech, and it was unquestionably his most underwhelming." (Peter Hamby, Ashley Killough And Paul Steinhauser, "Five Things We Learned From Day Three Of The DNC," CNN, 9/7/12)
The Washington Post's Dana Milbank: "His Results Were Disappointing." "The demigod turned out to be entirely human, and his results were disappointing. On Thursday night, as Obama admitted to 'failings,' Democrats who dreamed of the biggest and the best in 2008 were learning to accept good enough." (Dana Milbank, "Obama The Demigod Comes Down To Earth," The Washington Post, 9/7/12)
The Wall Street Journal's Peggy Noonan: "Deeply Overexposed And Often Boring. ... Weirdly Anticlimactic... It All Felt Flat." "Barack Obama is deeply overexposed and often boring. He never seems to be saying what he's thinking. His speech Thursday was weirdly anticlimactic. There's too much buildup, the crowd was tired, it all felt flat." (Peggy Noonan, "Noonan: The Democrats' Soft Extremism," The Wall Street Journal, 9/7/12)
On Top Of That, The Democrats Had To Deal With An "Embarrassing" Floor Fight Over Their Platform:
Los Angeles Times: "Democrats Stumble On Party Platform Language"(Los Angeles Times, 9/6/12)
The Associated Press' Josh Lederman And Julie Pace: "The Embarrassing Reversal Was Compounded By Chaos And Uncertainty On The Convention Floor."(Josh Lederman And Julie Pace, "Democrats Change Platform To Add God, Jerusalem," The Associated Press, 9/5/12)
MSNBC's Joe Scarborough: "It's A Saturday Night Live Skit. ... A Very Embarrassing Moment." SCARBOROUGH: "It's a Saturday Night Live skit." ... SCARBOROUGH: "A very embarrassing moment." (MSNBC's "Morning Joe," 9/6/12)
CNN's John Berman: "A Real, Real Moment Of Chaos... A Completely Unforced Error." BERMAN: "You can see it right here. This was a real, real moment of chaos and a completely unforced error, I think, for the Democrats."(CNN's "Early Start," 9/6/12)
New York Post Carl Campanile, Josh Margolin And Geoff Earle: "A Firestorm Of Criticism."  "Facing a firestorm of criticism, red-faced Democrats retreated on their party platform yesterday by ramming through references to God and Jerusalem — over loud opposition from many rank-and-file delegates." (Carl Campanile, Josh Margolin And Geoff Earle, "Democrats Scramble To Restore References To God And Israel In Party Platform," New York Post, 9/6/12)
  