
    Yesterday, Biden spread multiple falsehoods, misrepresentations, and outright lies 
BIDEN: "The President reportedly said, and I emphasize reportedly said, that those who sign up to serve, instead of doing something more lucrative are 'suckers.'"
FACT: At least 10 officials who were on the trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in The Atlantic article:

Sarah Sanders, former White House Press Secretary: "The Atlantic story on @realDonaldTrump is total BS. I was actually there and one of the people part of the discussion - this never happened."
Hogan Gidley, former Deputy White House Press Secretary: "These are disgusting, grotesque, reprehensible lies. I was there in Paris and the President never said those things."
Dan Scavino, White House Deputy Chief Of Staff for Communications: "I was with POTUS in France, with Sarah, and have been at his side throughout it all. Complete lies by 'anonymous sources'..."
Jordan Karem, former Personal Aide to President Trump: "This is not even close to being factually accurate. plain and simple, it just never happened."

Karem: "Again, this is 100% false. I was next to @POTUS the whole day! The President was greatly disappointed when told we couldn't fly there. He was incredibly eager to honor our Fallen Heroes."


Johnny DeStefano, former Counselor to the President: "I was on this trip. The Atlantic bit is not true. Period."
John Bolton, former National Security Advisor: "'I didn't hear that,' Mr. Bolton said in an interview. 'I'm not saying he didn't say them later in the day or another time but I was there for that discussion.'"
Stephen Miller, White House Senior Adviser: The accusation is a "despicable lie ... The president deeply wanted to attend the memorial event in question and was deeply displeased by the bad weather call."
Tony Ornato, Then-Head of the Secret Service's Presidential Protective Detail
Derek Lyons, Staff Secretary and Counselor to the President:"I was with the President the morning after the scheduled visit. He was extremely disappointed that arrangements could not be made to get him to the site, and that the trip had been cancelled."?
Dan Walsh, former Deputy Chief Of Staff: "I can attest to the fact that there was a bad weather call in France, and that the helicopters were unable to safely make the flight."

Additionally, The Atlantic's reporting has been refuted by a White House email and Navy documents that directly show a "bad weather call" was the reason for the canceled presidential trip to Aisne-Marne American cemetery in 2018.
BIDEN: "The August jobs report came out this morning ... The pace of the jobs gains in August was slower than July, significantly slower than in May and June."
FACT: The number of jobs added back in August was the fourth largest one-month gain on record.

The economy added back 1.4 million jobs in August, which only trails the one-month gains in May, June, and July.
Comparatively, the largest one-month jobs gain during Biden's "recovery" was 540,000 new jobs, less than half the number of jobs added in August.

BIDEN: "And after six months in the pandemic, we're less than halfway back to where we were, with one, 11 million, 11.5 million Americans not getting their jobs back."
FACT: The economic comeback is occurring at an historic pace, and Biden's "recovery" took nearly seven times as long as the current comeback to add back a similar percentage of jobs lost.

In the last four months, the economy has added back 48 percent of the jobs lost due to the pandemic.
The 10.6 million jobs added during this time represent the largest four month jobs gain in U.S. history.
By comparison, it took 27 months for the Biden "recovery" to add back 4.2 million jobs, 48 percent of the jobs lost during the Great Recession.

BIDEN: "In the meantime, Trump and his friends have strong views about what the rest of America should do: ... Defund Social Security ..."
FACT: President Trump's payroll tax deferral does not defund social security, and this attack by Biden and his allies has been debunked.

The Washington Post's Fact Checker gave this attack by the Biden campaign "Four Pinnochios", saying "there are no planned cuts" to Social Security.
President Trump has said he wants to make the payroll deferral permanent next year, making this deferral a cut "without in any way, shape, or form hurting Social Security."

The President has said he would use the Treasury Department's general fund to reimburse Social Security's trust fund, ensuring zero impact on our nation's seniors.?


Biden's attack is not only false, it is hypocritical.

In 2011, Biden wrote an op-ed touting a bill Obama signed to cut the payroll tax, specifically saying it was "misinformation" to suggest a payroll tax cut hurt Social Security's solvency.


President Trump has promised to always protect Social Security, unlike Biden who bragged in the 1990s about his efforts to 'freeze' benefits."

REPORTER: "Attorney General William Barr saying on CNN this week, he said that his assessment right now is that China poses the most aggressive threat to U.S. elections..." BIDEN: "He is a lousy enough Attorney General but he is a really bad intelligence officer."
FACT: Biden is denying the assessments of our nation's national security and intelligence officials, who say China poses the largest threat.

National Security Adviser Robert O'Brien said "Yes I agree with [Barr] 100%" that China is the biggest threat.
Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe: "China poses a greater national security threat to the U.S. than any other nation – economically, militarily and technologically. That includes threats of election influence and interference."

The Intelligence Community recently announced its assessment that "China prefers that President Trump" lose to Biden.


Secretary of State Mike Pompeo warned that China poses a biggest threat to our election than any other country.?
National Counterintelligence and Security Center Director William Evanina named China as one of the three countries the intelligence community is "primarily concerned with" when it comes to election security.

BIDEN: "[Kamala Harris has] been on the road, she's out herself."
FACT: Harris is not on the road campaigning, but spent yesterday in a virtual, big-dollar fundraiser, with tickets ranging from $10,000 to $500,000 per person.

On September 3, Harris held a big-dollar virtual fundraiser with Hollywood elites and producer Doug Prochilo, who has repeatedly made offensive and sexist comments.

BIDEN: "Violence isn't a problem in Trump's eyes, it's a political strategy — and the more of it, the better, as his press secretary had said."
FACT: These comments – which Biden made at an afternoon fundraiser –misquoted and misconstrued comments from Counselor to the President Kellyanne Conway, not White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany.

Conway was responding to a question about something Biden supporter Pete Buttigieg said, falsely blaming President Trump for the violence occurring in Democrat-run cities.
In response, Conway said "The more chaos and anarchy and vandalism and violence reigns, the better it is for the very clear choice on who's best on public safety and law and order."
This is not the first time Biden has misquoted Conway.

  