
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

America's forests—and the products from those forests—have contributed greatly to our Nation's development and progress for more than two centuries.
The seemingly inexhaustible supply of wood, water, wildlife, and other resources challenged our forefathers to carve a civilization out of the wilderness during our Nation's first century.
Then, during the second century, we came to recognize our responsibilities to conserve the forest resources and use them wisely.
Today, as we look forward to the year 2000, we have the knowledge to make the most of our forests and to make them more productive and to protect them more effectively. We need them to be prepared to meet increasing demands for homes, for wood, for paper, and for forest recreation. We know that in the decades ahead, demands for wood products—and for other uses of the forest—will increase dramatically.
Under careful management, our forests can produce more than twice the volume of timber now being grown, without damaging our environment. This means that we can meet our own increasing demands and still export wood products, thus strengthening both our economy and our independence.
Our forests can also be managed to provide not only abundant timber, but also water, wildlife and fish, recreation, paper resources, grazing for domestic livestock, and even mining—while still ensuring a quality environment.
As Americans we are fortunate in having a very large base of public forestlands that are managed for all our people. These forests are serving us well and can meet more of our immediate and future needs than they do now, with careful management. We also have millions of acres of private lands that must be managed to help meet future needs—needs that are not just economic and material, but inspirational as well. The human spirit needs the beauty, solitude, and renewal that are found in forests.
In recognizing the unique qualities and values of America's forest resources, the Congress has by Public Law 86-753, 36 U.S.C. 163, designated the third week in October as National Forest Products Week.
Now, Therefore, L Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week of October 17 through October 23, 1982, as National Forest Products Week and call upon all Americans to express their gratitude for the abundant forests with which this Nation has been blessed, and which have benefited us materially, economically, and spiritually.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this 23rd day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightytwo, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  