
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House)(Shuster (R) PA and 4 cosponsors)
The designation of (he National Highway System (NHS) is one of the Administration's top transportation priorities for this session of Congress.
The proposed NHS is the culmination of several years' work by the States, local governments, metropolitan planning organizations, Congress, and the Department of Transportation to identify highways of national significance - highways that will safely support our Nation's economic, national defense, and mobility needs. If legislation designating the NHS is not enacted by September 30, 1995, the Department of Transportation will be unable to obligate $5.2 billion in FY 1996 transportation funding.
The Administration strongly opposes enactment of H.R. 2274, however, because it contains several highly objectionable provisions which are unrelated to designating the NHS. In particular, the Administration strongly opposes provisions in H.R. 2274 which would:

Increase highway fatalities and injuries by repealing statutory provisions that mandate a national maximum speed limit and encourage States to require the use of motorcycle helmets. These safety laws have substantially decreased highway related injuries and fatalities. Repealing these safety programs will impose substantial human and economic costs on the Nation as a whole.   
Endanger motor earner operators and other drivers by exempting a large percentage of commercial vehicles and operators from safety requirements related to driver qualifications, operator fatigue and hours of service, drug and alcohol use. and vehicle safety standards.   
Evade deficit reduction restrictions to increase highway spending by $2.2 billion, including almost $150 million for highway demonstration projects, during the next 5 years over the amounts which would normally be permitted under current law.   
Undermine the effectiveness of the NHS by requiring congressional approval for each and every change in the system.   
Rescind funding for the congestion pilot pricing program, one of the most important programs to increase the overall efficiency of our transportation system. This program is necessary to assist localities which are exploring market-based strategies for reducing congestion during peak traffic periods.   
Restrict the Federal Transit Administration's ability to manage its new starts program by limiting its authority to enter into full funding agreements. 

The Administration would also strongly oppose any amendments to H.R. 2274 to repeal current laws encouraging States to enact safety belt and minimum drinking age laws. Weakening these vital highway safety laws, which have proven effective, would result in increased fatalities and injuries and their attendant societal, economic, and health care costs.
Pay-As-You-Go Scoring 
H.R. 2274 would increase outlays during FYs 1996-2000. The bill does not contain provisions to offset the increase in outlays. Therefore, if the bill were enacted, its deficit effect could contribute to a sequester of mandatory programs. OMB's preliminary scoring estimate of this bill is that it would increase outlays by $2.2 billion during FYs 1996-2000. Final scoring of this legislation may deviate from this estimate.
  