
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Matthew B. Shipley, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense (Readiness).
Matthew B. Shipley currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Force Readiness. As the Department's focal point for strategic and operational readiness, he develops and oversees policies and programs that ensure the United States military is ready to perform any mission.
Prior to this role, Mr. Shipley served as the Military Legislative Assistant to Senator Ted Cruz, where he advised the Senator on a broad portfolio of veterans affairs, foreign affairs, and national security matters. Previously, Mr. Shipley served as the Deputy Operations Officer for the USS Abraham Lincoln, as a Strategic Planner at the United Kingdom's Permanent Joint Headquarters, and as a Strategic Policy Branch Chief for the United States Central Command.
Mr. Shipley served in the United States Navy for twenty years, retiring with the rank of Commander. He earned his MBA from Arizona State University and his Bachelor of Engineering from Vanderbilt University. He is a two-time recipient of both the Defense Meritorious Service Medal and the Air Medal with Combat Valor and has also received the Meritorious Service Medal.
Ryan Michael Tully, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Verification and Compliance).
Ryan Michael Tully is currently Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Director for European and Russian Affairs for the National Security Council (NSC). Prior to his current role, he was the Deputy Senior Director for Counterproliferation and Biodefense for the NSC, and a Senior Policy Advisor to the Undersecretary of State for Arms Control and International Security.
Mr. Tully previously served for seven years as a professional staff member on the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence. Before that, he served in multiple roles in the United States Senate, including as a Minority Subcommittee Staff Director for the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and as a Military Legislative Assistant. Earlier in his career, he was a Legislative Fellow in the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
Mr. Tully also served as an Information Dominance Warfare Officer in the United States Navy Reserve. He earned his B.A. from Syracuse University and his Masters degrees from George Washington University and the Naval War College.
Rear Admiral (Ret.) Jon C. Kreitz, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force (Manpower and Reserve Affairs).
Rear Admiral Kreitz was most recently the Deputy Director for Operations of the Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency, where he led daily operations spanning the Indo-Pacific, Americas, Europe, North Africa, and the Middle East.
Previously, Rear Admiral Kreitz served as the President of the Board of Inspection and Survey within the Department of the Navy. Prior to this position, he served as the Executive Assistant and Chief of Staff to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs. In this position, he drove the development, oversight, and administration of policies, programs, information systems, and budgets for nearly 870,000 Navy and Marine Corps military and civilian personnel.
Rear Admiral Kreitz has also served as the Chief of Staff to the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs and commanded both the USS New York and the USS Stephen W Groves.
Rear Admiral Kreitz is a graduate of the United States Army Command and General Staff College, Naval Postgraduate School, and the Georgia Institute of Technology. He is a recipient of the Defense Superior Service Medal, Legion of Merit, Meritorious Service Medal, and the Defense Meritorious Service Medal, among other awards.
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jack Joyce, of New York, to be a Member of the Medal of Valor Review Board.
Daniel Patrick Cortez, of Virginia, to be a Member of the President's Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity.
Alan Neil Rechtschaffen, of New York, to be a Member of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in the Smithsonian Institution.
Benjamin A. Powell, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Public Interest Declassification Board.
Michael G. Lawrence, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Public Interest Declassification Board.
  