
    Today, Biden for President announced a set of new ads that build upon Joe Biden's speech in Pittsburgh and demonstrate the contrast between Donald Trump's America where COVID, economic uncertainty, and racial unrest threaten the safety of the country, and the vision for a better future Joe Biden laid out.
The ads are part of the $45 million the campaign is spending across broadcast and digital this week, and they will run on national cable channels and in key battleground states, including Arizona, Florida, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Wisconsin.
"Defend" highlights Vice President Biden's message to Americans as they grapple with intersecting crises: he will protect the country from any threat. Lacking any formal production components, the ad features an unproduced excerpt of Vice President Biden's nomination speech delivering his clear, succinct, and powerful message directly to the American people.
 Watch "Defend" HERE.
As the pandemic rages across the country, leaving more than six million infected, 180,000 dead, and 15 million out of work -- the campaign is also releasing spots that show how Joe Biden will keep Americans safe from COVID. The campaign revamped a primary ad,"Personal," that outlines why health care, particularly during a pandemic, and why it is so important and deeply personal to Vice President Biden. Running in tandem with it is "Reeling" which underscores the challenges Americans are facing everyday because of the ongoing public health crisis.
 Watch "Personal" HERE.
  Watch "Reeling" HERE.
These ads come on the heels of "Be Not Afraid," which was released directly after Vice President Biden's Pittsburgh speech and shows how President Trump has fanned the flames of division, failed to unequivocally condemn the violence in American cities, and instilled fear across the country. The ad highlights Joe Biden's message to the country in this moment: we must stop the unacceptable violence, unite the country, and be guided by the words of Pope John Paull II: "Be Not Afraid."
  