
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Benjamin Joel Beaton, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Kentucky, vice Justin Reed Walker, elevated.
Hector Gonzalez, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Brian M. Cogan, retired.
Zachary T. Haines, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation for a term expiring December 10, 2023, vice Ingrid A. Gregg, term expired.
Jon Christopher Kreitz, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Shon J. Manasco.
Andrew John Lawler, of California, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice Kerri-Ann Jones, resigned.
Ryan Thomas McAllister, of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of New York, vice Gary L. Sharpe, retired.
Kathryn Kimball Mizelle, of Florida, to be United States District Judge for the Middle District of Florida, vice Virginia Maria Hernandez Covington, retired.
Matthew B. Shipley, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Defense, vice Veronica Daigle, resigned.
Zachary N. Somers, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Thomas Craig Wheeler, term expiring.
Ryan Michael Tully, of New York, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Verification and Compliance), vice Yleem D. S. Poblete, resigned.
David Carey Woll, Jr., of New York, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of New York, vice Dora L. Irizarry, retired.
WITHDRAWALS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Jennifer Yue Barber, of Kentucky, to be Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2020.
Jennifer Yue Barber, of Kentucky, to be Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations, during her tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, which was sent to the Senate on January 6, 2020.
William Perry Pendley, of Wyoming, to be Director of the Bureau of Land Management, vice Neil Gregory Kornze, which was sent to the Senate on June 30, 2020.
  