
    
McCain Was "An Emphatic, Impassioned, Even Indignant Leader With A More Seasoned And More Visceral Understanding Of A Cynical Capital And A Violent Planet" 
Politico's Carrie Budoff Brown and John F. Harris: "But the 90-minute session put on vivid display the side of McCain that his strategists believe is his best hope: an emphatic, impassioned, even indignant leader with a more seasoned and more visceral understanding of a cynical capital and a violent planet." (Carrie Budoff Brown and John F. Harris, "McCain Goes On Offense; Obama Plays It Cool," Politico, 9/27/08) 
The Boston Globe's Todd Domke: "And The Winner Is... McCain." (Todd Domke, Op-Ed, "And The Winner Is... McCain," The Boston Globe, 9/27/08) 
National Review's Byron York: "Obama was smooth, unflappable, and just a little off balance for much of the evening. Worse for him, he seemed inexplicably eager to concede that McCain was right on issue after issue. A candidate determined to appear congenial might do that once, or even twice, but Obama did it eight times ... Add it all up, and Obama was undeniably, and surprisingly, deferential to a man who in the past Obama has said 'doesn't get it.'" (Byron York, "'Senator McCain Is Absolutely Right ...'" National Review Online, 9/27/08) 
York: "The bottom line was that Obama did well enough, but McCain did better. A number of post-debate observers suggested that Obama might emerge the winner on these topics because he was able to stand alongside McCain and argue as an equal despite McCain's greater experience. Maybe viewers will handicap the contest that way, but if they judge it straight, McCain will come out on top." (Byron York, "'Senator McCain Is Absolutely Right ...'" National Review Online, 9/27/08) 
"McCain Shows Strength In Experience," Speaking "With More Fluency And Experience" 
Detroit Free Press Editorial: "In their requisite, presidential-looking dark suits, John McCain and Barack Obama went at it pretty good in their first debate Friday night. Obama landed the first shot, but a relaxed and confident McCain kept him on the defensive for much of the rest of the encounter. Particularly on matters of war and international tensions, Obama did not appear as assured and authoritative as McCain, who kept reminding the national TV audience of all the places he has been and people he has met during his 26 years in Congress. Obama has been in the Senate for four." (Editorial, "No Knockout, But McCain Shows Strength In Experience," Detroit Free Press, 9/27/08) 
Chicago Tribune Editorial: "As the debate shifted to national security issues, McCain demonstrated why many voters see this as a strong area for him. He's been involved for decades in deciding whether the U.S. engages militarily in hot spots such as Somalia, Lebanon and Bosnia--and it shows. His cautious words about the careful use of power indirectly addressed the fear of some Americans that he'd be a trigger-happy president. ... The bulk of Friday night's debate took place on the turf McCain knows best: foreign affairs and military endeavors. That showed. Obama spoke capably on one topic after another; McCain, who has traveled to numerous crisis locales and joined in more foreign policy debates, spoke with more fluency and experience." (Editorial, "Advantage: Experience," Chicago Tribune, 9/26/08) 
Rocky Mountain News Editorial: "Republican McCain stressed his toughness, experience and decades-long knowledge of international affairs. He dispelled any notion that he was a hothead or lacked the temperament to be an effective president." (Editorial, "A Debate Of Substance," Rocky Mountain News, 9/26/08) 
Rocky Mountain News: "Going forward with Friday's presidential debate might have helped Sen. John McCain pick up support from undecided voters, based on real-time reactions of some Colorado fence-sitters." (M.E. Sprengelmeyer, "For These Two, McCain Picks Up Points," Rocky Mountain News, 9/27/08) 
Los Angeles Times Editorial: "John McCain proved he was resolute and tough." (Editorial, "A Too-Close-To-Call Debate," Los Angeles Times, 9/27/08) 
Los Angeles Times: "It [debate] showed that John McCain is clear-eyed about the threats to America." (Editorial, "A Too-Close-To-Call Debate," Los Angeles Times, 9/27/08) 
The Wall Street Journal: "[M]ost of the night was devoted to foreign policy and there we give the clear edge to Mr. McCain. This is the ground where the 72-year-old is most comfortable, and you could see it in his self-confidence, as well as his command of history and facts." (Editorial, "Round One," The Wall Street Journal, 9/27/08) 
The Wall Street Journal: "He [McCain] showed it too in the specificity of his answers, notably on Russia: Watch Ukraine, he said, and 'the Crimea,' because Vladimir Putin's Georgian expedition is a prelude to Russian adventurism there." (Editorial, "Round One," The Wall Street Journal, 9/27/08) 
CBN's David Brody: "As for John McCain he had a solid night. I have seen John McCain debate quite a bit and I must say he was probably as sharp tonight as I've ever seen him. He was constantly on the attack against Obama but it didn't seem angry or over the top. He also was spitting out foreign policy knowledge like never before and was able to passionately talk about his signature issue: wasteful spending. It was a performance he can be proud of. That said, he didn't have a game changing moment tonight. Some may think he needs one and he may before these debates are over." (David Brody, "Obama And McCain: Fit To Be Tied," CBN News, 9/27/08) 
"Score One For McCain," As "In This Game At Least, He Made The Case For Captain Of The Football Team"
New York Daily News' S.E. Cupp: "Throughout the debate, which focused on both the economy and foreign policy, McCain had facts, figures and names at his fingertips, speaking from decades of experience in the trenches -- literally and figuratively -- and repeated the phrase, 'Senator Obama doesn't seem to understand ...' He called Obama naive, dangerous and inexperienced, and his attacks, which seemed to frustrate Obama, put him on the defensive for the majority of the night. ... McCain may not be, as he put it, Miss Congeniality in the Senate or with the current administration. But in this game at least, he made the case for captain of the football team." (S.E. Cupp, Op-Ed, "Score One For McCain," [New York] Daily News, 9/26/08) 
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review Headline: "The First Debate: Advantage McCain." (Editorial, "The First Debate: Advantage McCain," Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, 9/27/08) 
Tribune-Review: "And John McCain never looked more presidential." (Editorial, "The First Debate: Advantage McCain," Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, 9/27/08) 
New York Observer's Jason Horowitz: "Obama seemed unwilling to sacrifice his presidential poise by pressing or attacking McCain too much, and often conceded that he agreed with his opponent's observations and analysis." (Jason Horowitz, "The 'What Senator Obama Does Not Understand' Debate," New York Observer, 9/26/08)
  