
    "[President Obama] doesn't understand how the free economy works. ... I'm a conservative businessman. And that is what America needs if we're going to get our economy going. I put out a booklet which describes the things I'd do to get this economy going again. There are 59 different steps that have to be taken. And President Obama, there's no way he could do something like that because he just doesn't understand it." –Mitt Romney

Visit The New Romney For President Website:

www.obamaisntworking.com
Americans Are Continuing To Suffer Under The Failed Economic Policies Of The Obama Administration:
The American Economy Added Zero Payroll Jobs In August And Unemployment Remains At 9.1%. "Nonfarm payroll employment was unchanged (0) in August, and the unemployment rate held at 9.1 percent, the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics reported today. Employment in most major industries changed little over the month." (Bureau Of Labor Statistics, www.bls.gov, 9/2/11)
"Friday's Labor Department Report Showed The First Time In Nearly A Year That The Economy Had Failed To Create Jobs." (Jeff Mason, "Analysis: Mix Of Measures More Likely In Obama Jobs Plan," Reuters, 9/2/11)


    "Nonfarm Employment For June And July Was Revised To Show 58,000 Fewer Jobs." (Reuters, 9/2/11)
  

    "Employment Growth Ground To A Halt In August As Sagging Consumer Confidence Discouraged Already Skittish U.S. Businesses From Hiring..." (Reuters, 9/2/11)
  

Roughly One Of Every Six Workers In America Who Wants A Full-Time Job Cannot Find One. "The U.S. jobless rate was flat at 9.1% in August, but the government's broader measure of unemployment rose to 16.2%, matching the highest rate this year. The comprehensive gauge of labor underutilization, known as the 'U-6' for its data classification by the Labor Department, accounts for people who have stopped looking for work or who can't find full-time jobs." ("Broader Unemployment Rate Rises To 16.2%," The Wall Street Journal, 9/2/11)
"President Obama Could Be Under More Pressure Than Ever To Produce An Effective New Jobs Proposal After Friday's Bad Unemployment Report." ("On Labor Day Obama To Sell Jobs Creation," CBSNews.com, 9/5/11)
The President's Address Will Contain "A Familiar Set Of Plans" That We Have Already Seen:


    Bloomberg: President Obama "Has Spent Much Of The Year Pressing Congress To Act On A Familiar Set Of Plans." "Obama has spent much of the year pressing Congress to act on a familiar set of plans: renewal of a two-percentage-point cut in the employee-paid portion of the payroll tax and extended unemployment benefits, which are both scheduled to expire on Dec. 31; establishment of an infrastructure bank to fund public works spending; ratification of free-trade deals; and overhauling patent law. Obama has said those also will remain priorities." (Mike Dorning, "Obama May Back Hiring Credit, Infrastructure Spending Yet Fall Shy On Jobs," Bloomberg, 8/30/11)
  

    The Plan "Follows The Contours Of His $830 Billion 2009 Economic Stimulus Package..." "Obama's jobs plan follows the contours of his $830 billion 2009 economic stimulus package, which also stressed tax cuts, infrastructure spending and assistance to local governments." (Albert R. Hunt, "Obama Said To Seek $300 Billion Jobs Package," Bloomberg, 9/7/11)
  

    "We've Seen This Image Before ... Seems Like A Replay Of The Economic Agenda He Outlined When Seeking The Democratic Nomination." "We've seen this image before: Barack Obama putting the final touches on an important economic speech calling for stimulus spending, job creation, infrastructure investment, assistance to those hit by the housing crisis and an extension of unemployment benefits. As the president prepares to deliver a pivotal address to a joint session of Congress on Thursday, it seems like a replay of the economic agenda he outlined when seeking the Democratic nomination." (Zachary Goldfarb, "Obama's Jobs Speech Will Renew Push For Spending To Boost Economy," The Washington Post, 9/7/11)
  

President Obama's Plan Falls Short Of Getting Americans Back To Work Right Now:

Elements Of The President's Plan Reportedly Under Consideration "Won't Be Enough To Propel [The Economy] To New Heights." "At a minimum, the president's plan will call on Congress to extend current payroll tax cuts and jobless benefits, spend money for new construction projects and offer incentives to businesses to hire more workers. But economists say that while that would eliminate some drag on the economy and maintain the status quo, it won't be enough to propel it to new heights." (Jim Kuhnhenn, "Obama Faces Tight Restraints In Crafting Jobs Plan," The Associated Press, 8/30/11)
The Proposed "Infrastructure Bank ... Probably Would Not Be In Place To Generate Jobs For About Two Years." "[President Obama] also has lent support to a proposal to create an 'infrastructure bank,' a fund that would be seeded by the government but fed by private investment to pay for major road, bridge and other public construction. Even advocates of the plan, however, say that proposal probably would not be in place to generate jobs for about two years." (Jim Kuhnhenn, "Obama Faces Tight Restraints In Crafting Jobs Plan," The Associated Press, 8/30/11)

    "Public Works Programs Take Time To Ramp Up And So Would Their Impact On Hiring..." "While government-funded infrastructure spending would directly add jobs and boost overall economic growth, public works programs take time to ramp up and so would their impact on hiring ... Even though Obama's 2009 economic stimulus concentrated on 'shovel-ready' projects, it was criticized for delays in getting people back to work." (Mike Dorning, "Obama May Back Hiring Credit, Infrastructure Spending Yet Fall Shy On Jobs," Bloomberg, 8/30/11)
  

"Obama's Plan Is Likely To Be Found Lacking On Both Ends Of The Political Spectrum." (Jim Kuhnhenn, "Obama Faces Tight Restraints In Crafting Jobs Plan," The Associated Press, 8/30/11)
  