
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump rallies with supporters in Latrobe, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Pennsylvania families and workers:

The President's Paycheck Protection Program provided over $20.7 billion worth of loans to more than 173,000 Pennsylvania businesses and saved 1.8 million jobs.
6.5 million Pennsylvanians received Economic Impact Payments totaling more than $10.9 billion in relief.
The CARES Act provided Pennsylvania with up to $4.96 billion in assistance to deal with the outbreak and more than $1.25 billion to health care providers in the state.
President Trump approved Pennsylvania's disaster declaration in March unlocking federal aid for the state.

FEMA gave Pennsylvania $5 million for BiPAP breathing machines in April.
The USDA approved Pennsylvania for the pandemic EBT program, helping feed children who are ineligible for school lunch programs while they are at home.



Pennsylvania's businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

Over the last three months, Pennsylvania added back 532,800 jobs. President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Pennsylvania's workers and businesses, and he can do it again.
Median household incomes in Pennsylvania increased by nearly $1,400 during the first two years of the Trump presidency.
Between President Trump's election and February 2020, Pennsylvania added over 209,000 new jobs, including more than 16,000 new manufacturing jobs. When Joe Biden was Vice President, Pennsylvania lost 51,200 manufacturing jobs.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America-First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Pennsylvania's economy: 

President Trump's USMCA trade deal is critical for Pennsylvania's economy. The state exports more than $15 billion worth of goods to Canada and Mexico each year, and trade with those two countries supports 477,900 Pennsylvania jobs.
The USMCA will boost Pennsylvania's agricultural exports, helping the state's farmers and agriculture producers.

The deal will help Pennsylvania's 6,200 dairy farms by boosting their market access to Canada and eliminating Canada's unfair milk pricing program.


President Trump is defending Pennsylvania farmers and agricultural producers from China by providing more than $79 million in direct USDA payments to offset the damage of China's tariffs.

But Joe Biden's disastrous agenda will decimate Pennsylvania's recovering economy and undo President Trump's policies that help Pennsylvanians the most:

The trade deals that Joe Biden supported throughout his 44 years in office killed Pennsylvania jobs.

Pennsylvania lost 26,300 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA.
Pennsylvania lost 317,600 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalize trade relations with China, which killed 136,100 Pennsylvania jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies would devastate Pennsylvania workers and businesses.

The oil, natural gas, and coal industries support nearly 370,000 Pennsylvania jobs and contribute $50 billion to the state's economy each year.
Pennsylvania is currently the nation's second largest natural gas producer, producing nearly one-fifth of all U.S. natural gas.
71% of Pennsylvania's homes use natural gas, propane, or fuel oil as their primary heating source, fuels that Joe Biden has pledged to "end."


Biden wants to eliminate fracking, which would devastate Pennsylvania:

Pennsylvania's shale production alone supports an estimated 220,000 jobs.
A fracking ban would kill 609,000 Pennsylvania jobs and take $261 billion out of the state's economy.
A fracking ban would cut state and local revenues by more than $23 billion, money that would have to be made up elsewhere with higher taxes.



  