
    "I also understand that when people cheat, that kills jobs. China has cheated. I will not allow that to continue." — Mitt Romney
Remarks
Vandalia, Ohio
September 25, 2012
Click Here To Watch Mitt Romney
MITT ROMNEY: "But I also understand that when people cheat, that kills jobs. China has cheated. I will not allow that to continue. And it's not over. I mean, how does a nation cheat? How do you pull that off? Let me tell you how you pull it off. One way is to artificially hold down the value of your currency, to make sure it doesn't trade openly around the world. And what does that do? Well, let me tell you what it does. It makes your products artificially less expensive. The estimates are that China has held down the value of its currency anywhere between 15 and 30 percent, and so their products will be 15 to 30 percent cheaper. Guess what that does to the American companies that are competing in those industries. They lose sales, and so they have to lay off people. And ultimately they go out of business, and that's been happening. They've been manipulating, holding down the value of their currency. What else do they do? They steal intellectual property. What do I mean by that? Patents, designs, know-how, even counterfeit our goods. I was with a company in the Midwest that said that they had some products that were coming back, valves. These are industrial valves, great big heavy industrial valves -- said they were getting warranty claims on these valves of theirs that were breaking. And they were their product. They had their packaging on it. They had their serial numbers on it. And then they realized they're counterfeit; these aren't actually our product; they've been sold as our product, under our brand name, with our bar codes, everything else associated with them. And these products are coming into this country, being counterfeited overseas. That kills jobs. That's what they've been doing. There's an Apple Store in China. Have you read about that one? They got a store, Apple Store, selling Apple, you know, iPads and iPhones, except it's not an Apple Store. It's all counterfeit. Look, this kind of practice has to stop. They even have hacked into our computers. Our government, with the F-35 they looked at designs for the F-35 -- they've looked at computers of our corporations. This cannot be allowed. We cannot compete with people who don't play fair, and I won't let that go on. I will stop it in its tracks."
Click Here To Watch Paul Ryan
PAUL RYAN: "And just the other day on TV he said that he can't change Washington from the inside. Why do we send presidents to Washington in the first place? I mean, isn't that what we're supposed to do? Don't we send them to fix the mess in Washington? Look, if he can't change Washington, then we need to change presidents. And we need to elect this man, Mitt Romney, the next President of the United States. The choice before us is very clear. We are offering real reforms for a real recovery."
  