
    Ladies and gentlemen:
In this room are men and women who have had an enormous interest for over 25 years in NATO and, consequently, who will well understand why we have selected the Secretary General as the first man in this Administration to receive the Medal of Freedom, other than, of course, an American.
The Medal of Freedom, as a matter of fact, Mr. Secretary General, has been presented only to three others than those who are American citizens. In presenting it to you today, I think that I would like to be permitted a personal word.
It is the Medal of Freedom, and freedom and NATO certainly go very well together, because when we think of NATO--why it was set up, what it has accomplished--it has been a great instrument in support and defense of freedom. The Medal today, however, in view of your service and in view of what NATO has done for 25 years and what it will do and can do in the future, could be described as the Medal of Peace.
In presenting it to you, it could very well be described as the Medal of Peace, because for 25 years NATO's strength has never been used and has never been maintained for the purpose of threatening the peace, but always to keep the peace. And NATO continues to be strong and will be kept strong for peace and for freedom.
All of us who know the Secretary General, who knew him before he became Secretary General and before he served-longer in that position than anyone else who has held that position--know of his labors in the cause of peace through the years, the years that he was Ambassador to this country, the years that he was Ambassador to the Soviet Union and to other major countries, one of the truly great diplomats of the world; a man who has given his public life to the service of peace and then capped it finally as Secretary, General for NATO, an instrument for peace, of course, as well as an instrument for freedom.
So it is with very great pride, as representing the people of the United States, as a member of the NATO community, but also pride personally as one who has been privileged to know the Secretary General for almost 20 years, to make this presentation today of the Medal of Freedom. I shall read the citation now:
THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OR AMERICA AWARDS THIS PRESIDENTIAL MEDAL OF FREEDOM TO MANLID BROSIO
A distinguished diplomat, he has nobly served freedom in the world as Secretary General of the North At]antic Treaty Organization. He has won the highest respect in his untiring work for both defense and detente, and he has performed his task with exceptional skill, perseverance, and fairness. In his dedication to the cause of comity among nations, Manlio Brosio has demonstrated that those who work to keep the peace are as blessed as the peacemakers.
[At this point, Secretary General Brosio spoke. The President then resumed speaking.]
Ladies and gentlemen, I know that all of you would like to meet and congratulate the Secretary General. We will he glad to receive you, those who can work it into your schedule, at the entrance to the State Dining Room at this time.
Thank you very much.
  