
    Former Texas State Senator Leticia Van de Putte, Controller Chris Brown, and Texas State Representative Christina Morales Endorse Julián Castro for President
SAN ANTONIO, TX (September 9, 2019) – On Monday, September 9, former Texas State Senator Leticia Van de Putte, Houston Controller Chris Brown, and Texas State Representative Christina Morales, endorsed Secretary Julián Castro for President of the United States ahead of Thursday's ABC/Univision Democratic Debate. Today's endorsements follow endorsements by more than 30 Texas officials since Secretary Castro announced his candidacy for president in January.
"I'm honored to have the endorsement and support of these incredible Texas leaders ahead of the Democratic debate in Houston," said Secretary Julián Castro. "Donald Trump is terrified that Texas will be in play in 2020–and with the help of Houstonians and Texans like these, we can defeat him in 2020 and turn the Lone Star State blue for years to come."
"Julian Castro is the leader we need for the future. From his humble upbringing, Julian excelled in all educational opportunities, returned home to serve his community as Mayor and ultimately served in President Obama's Cabinet," said former Texas State Senator Leticia Van de Putte. "He uniquely understands the challenges our country faces and brings the experience, compassion and energy Americans deserve in their President."
"As the City of Houston's Chief Financial Officer, building stronger, more financially sound families and cities is important to me. I believe that Julian's plan to build an economy that works for all Americans is the right path forward and is critical to the collective future of our city, state, and nation," said Controller Chris Brown. "As someone who comes from a family committed to public service, I admire Julian's commitment to building a brighter future for all Americans and am proud to stand with him in that work. I've been humbled to have Julian and his brother Joaquin's support in my role as Houston City Controller and am excited to support Julian in his bid for the Democratic presidential nomination!"
"I am so excited to endorse Secretary Castro for United States President," said Texas State Representative Christina Morales (D-Houston). "His vision for our country and political will are unmatched. Not only can he stand up to the current occupant of the White House but his experience and desire for equity and inclusion will make him a true representative of all Americans. #AdiosTrump!"
  