
    AUSTIN — Florida State Representative and House Majority Leader Carlos Lopez-Cantera today endorsed Gov. Rick Perry for president.
"It is my honor to announce today that I am endorsing Gov. Rick Perry for President of the United States of America," said Rep. Lopez-Cantera. "I have chosen to endorse Gov. Perry because of his proven track record in dealing with the most important issue facing this country today — job creation. Through the principled leadership of Gov. Perry, approximately 40 percent of the net new jobs created in the United States since June 2009 were created in Texas. On the other hand, under President Obama's failed economic policies, the U.S. has lost 2.4 million jobs during his tenure."
"The current U.S. debt is approaching $15 trillion, a figure that is bordering on disastrous levels for this country, if not already there. Social Security and Medicare have an unfunded liability in the tens of trillions of dollars, and Gov. Perry is committed to addressing and protecting these programs as president," Rep. Lopez-Cantera continued. "Based on his track record of fiscal responsibility and unwavering conservatism, I believe Gov. Perry is the leader who will save our country from this financial disaster and get America working again as the next president of the United States."
Representative Lopez-Cantera is the Majority Leader in the Florida House of Representatives. Leader Lopez-Cantera has served in the Florida House since 2004 and represents parts of Miami-Dade County. He was appointed by then Speaker Marco Rubio to the My Safe Florida Home Advisory Council and by former Gov. Jeb Bush to the Property Tax Reform Committee.
"Rep. Lopez-Cantera and Floridians know the importance of creating an environment that allows the private sector to do what it does best, which is create jobs for Americans and in turn wealth for our economy," Gov. Perry said. "I look forward to working with Rep. Lopez-Cantera as I continue to tell the people of Florida about my record and vision of fiscal conservatism and job creation, and my plans to get America working again."
  