
    Biden took China's word for it while they cheated and took millions of American jobs.
The New York Times confirms what we already know: Joe Biden literally paved the way for the Chinese Communist Party's entrance to the world stage and took China's word for it while they robbed America of millions of jobs, stole our factories, cheated on trade rules, and violated international rules.
"The U.S. welcomes the emergence of a prosperous, integrated China," Biden told the Chinese in 2001. Now that Americans' distrust of China is at an all-time high, Biden is trying to rewrite history and hope voters forget the decades he spent rubber-stamping China's economic rise.
Throughout his five decades in office, Beijing Biden cozied up to the Chinese while American factories closed and millions of American manufacturing jobs were shipped overseas.

Biden championed China's entry into the World Trade Organization, which cost the United States 60,000 factories and 3.5 million jobs.
Biden led the effort to give China "most favored nation" trade status, falsely promising it would not hurt American workers. He even described his support for China as an "accomplishment" on his website.
For years, Biden defended China, saying, "It is in our self-interest that China continue to prosper," that "China's not a problem," and that China is "not competition" for America.
Biden even said last year that Chinese Communist Party officials are "not bad folks."
Biden blocked attempts to protect human rights in the U.S. trade relationship with China.

Despite China unleashing a deadly virus on the world, Biden hasn't changed his mind. Biden recently said he would end President Trump's tariffs on China without getting anything in return, reverting back to the failed status quo. Biden continues to defend the Chinese government, parroting its talking points even as China lied about the origins of the coronavirus.

Biden attacked President Trump's restrictions on travel from China as irrational and "hysterical xenophobia." Experts now admit President Trump's action saved American lives.
When President Trump fought back against Chinese disinformation by accurately stating that the coronavirus originated in China, Biden sided with the Chinese.
Along with Kamala Harris, Biden repeated talking points straight from the Chinese government, matching China's state-run media propaganda virtually word-for-word.

While Biden is still defending China, President Trump is keeping his promise to stand up to China and hold the Chinese government accountable. He negotiated a trade deal that puts American workers first. He is pulling critical supply chains out of China. He called out China for its coronavirus coverup. He took a hard line on China's inexcusable intrusions into Hong Kong. In fact, ending American reliance on China is a main tenant of President Trump's second term agenda.
Joe Biden had a lifetime to prove he has what it takes to get tough on China­ – and he failed. Beijing Biden has never stood up to China, and he never will.
  