
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 14
In the morning, the President traveled to Raleigh, NC. In the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
In the evening, the President presented the President's Medal of Freedom to Rosa Parks in the Oval Office. Later, he attended two Democratic National Committee receptions at the Mayflower Hotel.
September 15
In the morning, the President traveled to Des Moines, IA. While en route aboard Air Force One, he had a telephone conversation with President Boris Yeltsin of Russia to wish Mr. Yeltsin well in his upcoming heart surgery.
In the afternoon, the President attended a reception at a private residence in Norwalk, IA, and then traveled to Indianola, IA. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
September 16
In the afternoon, the President traveled to Cincinnati, OH. In the evening, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to appoint Dr. Phillip A. Sharp to the National Cancer Advisory Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lorraine Weiss Frank to the National Council on the Humanities.
The President announced his intention to appoint Steven Alan Bennett to the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
The President announced the appointment of Shirley M. Hufstedler as Chair of the Commission on Immigration Reform.
The President announced his intention to nominate Karen Shepherd to be U.S. Executive Director of the European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ronald Kent Burton and D. Michael Rappoport to be members of the Board of Trustees of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation.
The President announced his intention to nominate Rhetaugh Graves Dumas and Bette O. Kramer to be members of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard W. Bogosian to the Rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Coordinator for Rwanda and Burundi.
The White House announced that the President will address the 51st Annual Session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, NY, on September 24.
September 17
In the morning, the President met with Members of Congress in the State Dining Room of the White House to discuss recent events regarding Iraq. Later, he traveled to Ypsilanti, MI, where he toured the William D. Ford Career Technical Center. He then traveled to Westland, MI.
In the afternoon, the Present traveled to Flossmoor, IL. While en route aboard Air Force One, he was interviewed by Barbara Walters of the television news program "20/20."
The President announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts: James A. Johnson, Ronald I. Dozoretz, Ann Dibble Jordan, Cappy R. McGarr, Miles L. Rubin, and James D. Wolfensohn.
The President announced his intention to nominate Lane Kirkland to serve on the Board of Directors of the Institute of Peace.
The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding associated with Tropical Storm Fran on September 6-9.
September 18
In the morning, the President traveled to Grand Canyon National Park, AZ.
In the evening, the President traveled to Seattle, WA. Later, he attended a Democratic National Committee dinner at the Columbia Tower Club.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard J. Tarplin to be Assistant Secretary for Legislation at the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President announced his intention to appoint Joseph M. Hauer to the Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The White House announced that the President welcomed the Guatemalan accord on Strengthening Democratic Institutions and the Role of the Military in Civil Society.
September 19
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton embarked upon a 2-day campaign bus tour and traveled to Tacoma, WA. In the afternoon, they traveled to Centralia and Longview, WA.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Portland, OR. Later, they attended a Democratic National Committee gala and reception at the Portland Hilton Hotel.
The President congratulated the 1996 winners of the Department of Commerce's Telecommunications and Information Infrastructure Assistance Program grants.
The President announced his intention to appoint Melvin E. Clark, Jr., and Kathleen Elizabeth Willey to be members of the United Service Organization, Inc. Board of Governors.
The President announced his intention to appoint Judy Jolley Mohraz to be a member of the U.S. Naval Academy Board of Visitors.
The White House announced that the President will visit Australia November 19-23 in advance of attending the meeting of APEC Economic Leaders which will be hosted by President Ramos of the Philippines at Subic Bay on November 24-25. He will then visit Thailand on November 26.
The White House announced that the President announced a new national policy that is the first post-cold-war assessment of American goals and activities in space.
September 20
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Sioux Falls, SD. In the evening, they returned to Washington, DC, arriving after midnight.
  