
    The Clinton campaign today announced that Florida attorney Willie E. Gary has been named a national campaign co-chair. In July, Gary announced his support for Senator Clinton to an audience of over 200 African American men who participated in an African Americans for Hillary lunch meeting.
"Hillary is a champion of civil rights, and she cares about the future of America's youth," Gary stated. "I have much admiration and respect for her and believe her steadfast values, forward thinking and outstanding leadership is what our country needs in a president. I am honored to serve as a national co-chair for the campaign."
Recognized by numerous publications for his work in the courtroom and for his philanthropic works, Gary has been featured in Ebony magazine as one of the "100 Most Influential Black Americans," in Forbes Magazine as one of the "Top 50 attorneys in the U.S." as well as the New York Times, Black Enterprise, JET, the New Yorker, and the National Law Journal.
"Willie has a remarkable legal career and a passionate work ethic," said Clinton. "I am honored to have Willie's support and know that as one of my national co-chairs, he will work tirelessly on my behalf and bring his amazing energy to my campaign."
Gary is the founder and senior partner at Gary, Williams, Finney, Lewis, Watson & Sperando, P.L., in Stuart, Florida. Gary's amazing success has earned him national recognition as a leading trial attorney. He has won some of the largest jury awards and settlements in U.S. history, including more than 150 cases in excess of $1 million each. Once a migrant worker, Gary has earned his reputation as "The Giant Killer" by challenging some of America's most well-known corporations on behalf of his clients.
Gary is known as a businessman, churchman, humanitarian and philanthropist who is very involved in charity and civic work. He formed the Gary Foundation which provides college scholarships and resources for youth so they can realize their dreams of achieving a higher education. In 1991, Gary donated $10.1 million to his alma mater Shaw University in North Carolina and has donated hundreds of thousands of dollars to Historically Black Colleges and Universities throughout the United States.
  