
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Earl W. Gast – Assistant Administrator for Africa, United States Agency for International Development
•      Roberta S. Jacobson – Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs, Department of State
•      Michael T. Scuse – Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, Department of Agriculture
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key administration post:
•      Glen F. Post III – Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
President Obama said, "It gives me great confidence that such dedicated and capable individuals have agreed to join this Administration to serve the American people. I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Earl W. Gast, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Africa, United States Agency for International Development 
Earl W. Gast served as USAID Mission Director to Afghanistan from June 2010 to June 2011. In 2009, he was Acting Assistant Administrator for the USAID Africa Bureau, and he served as Senior Deputy Assistant Administrator for Africa in 2008. From 2005 to 2008, Mr. Gast was Regional Mission Director for Ukraine, Belarus, and Moldova. In 2004, he served as the USAID representative to UN agencies in Rome. From 2003 to 2004, he was Mission Deputy Director in Iraq, a role he previously held in Kosovo from 2002 to 2003. He has also worked for USAID in Georgia, Russia, and the Philippines. Prior to joining USAID, Mr. Gast served in the Air Force and was a Navy reserve officer. He holds a B.A. from the University of Maryland and a Master's degree from George Washington University.
Roberta S. Jacobson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Western Hemisphere Affairs, Department of State
Roberta S. Jacobson currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary and Principal Deputy Secretary of the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs (WHA) at the Department of State. Previously, Ms. Jacobson served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Canada, Mexico and NAFTA issues (2007-2010), Director of the Office of Mexican Affairs (2003-2007), and Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Lima (2000-2002). From 1996 to 2000, Ms. Jacobson served as Director of the Office of Policy Planning and Coordination in WHA. She began her career at the Department of State as a Presidential Management Intern (PMI). Ms. Jacobson received a B.A. from Brown University and an M.A. from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
Michael T. Scuse, Nominee for Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services, Department of Agriculture 
Michael T. Scuse has been the Deputy Under Secretary for Farm and Foreign Agricultural Services (FFAS) since 2009, where he has primary responsibility over domestic programs including the Farm Services Agency and the Risk Management Agency. In January 2011, Mr. Scuse was designated the Acting Under Secretary for FFAS. Before joining the USDA, Mr. Scuse was chief of staff to then Governor Ruth Ann Minor. Prior to that, he served as Secretary of Agriculture for the State of Delaware from May 2001 until September 2008. From 1996 to 2001, Mr. Scuse served as both chairman of the Kent County (Delaware) Regional Planning Commission and chairman of the USDA Farm Services Agency's Delaware State Committee. From 1986 to 1994, he served as the Kent County Recorder of Deeds. He also previously served as both president and vice president of the Northeast Association of State Departments of Agriculture. Mr. Scuse attended Salem College.
President Obama also announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key Administration post:
Glen F. Post III, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
Glen Post III is currently the Chief Executive Officer and President of CenturyLink, a Louisiana-based telecommunications company. Mr. Post began his career with CenturyLink in 1976 and has held a number of leadership positions over the years including Chairman of the Board, Chief Operating Officer, Executive Vice President, Senior Vice President, Treasurer, and Vice President. He holds a Bachelor's degree and an M.B.A. from Louisiana Tech University.
  