
    "My campaign is about the 100 percent in America and I'm concerned about them. I'm concerned about the fact that over the past four years life has become harder for Americans. More people have fallen into poverty; more people we just learned have had to go onto food stamps. When the President took office 32 million were on food stamps, today 47 million people are on food stamps." — Mitt Romney
Univision
September 19, 2012
Click Here To Watch Mitt Romney
MITT ROMNEY: "Well, first of all this is a campaign about the 100 percent and over the last several years you've seen greater and greater divisiveness in this country. We had hoped to come back together, but instead you've seen us pull apart and politics has driven us apart in some respects.  My campaign is about the 100 percent in America and I'm concerned about them. I'm concerned about the fact that over the past four years life has become harder for Americans. More people have fallen into poverty; more people we just learned have had to go onto food stamps. When the President took office 32 million were on food stamps, today 47 million people are on food stamps. Now I know that I'm not going to get 100 percent of the vote and my campaign will focus on those people we think we can bring in to support me.  But this is a campaign about helping people who need help. Right now the people who are poor in this country need help getting out of poverty, the people in the middle class need help because their incomes have gone down every year for the last four years. Jobs are harder to find, we have 23 million Americans out of work or stopped looking for work, or underemployed. Half of the kids coming out of college aren't able to get jobs or jobs consistent with a college degree. And this is a tough time for America. And I'm convinced that if we take a different course, based upon my experience, a course that will reignite America's economy, you're going to see those numbers change. You're going to see people coming out of poverty.  You are going to see incomes rising again in America. That's the course that I think we have to take.  And by the way with regards as to how I'm confident that that's what can happen. I have a record. I've demonstrated my capacity to help the 100%."
  