
    Yesterday, President Biden hosted the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health, to catalyze action for millions of Americans struggling with food insecurity and diet-related diseases.
During the Conference, the President outlined the Biden-Harris Administration's goal of ending hunger in America and increasing healthy eating and physical activity by 2030—all while reducing disparities among communities impacted most.
The Administration also announced more than $8 billion in commitments from public and private entities that will reduce hunger, increase physical activity and promote access to healthy foods. This builds on the Administration's work with the American Rescue Plan, which put food on the table for millions; the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which created safer spaces to be active; and the Inflation Reduction Act, which invests in public health.
Lawmakers, advocates and community leaders applauded the President's strategy on hunger and health, and trust in his vision to meet this moment.
Here's what people are saying about the Conference, which brought together a bipartisan group of lawmakers, advocates, community leaders, and academics:
Members of Congress
Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi: "With this year's White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition and Health, @POTUS is mobilizing renewed, nationwide action against the hunger crisis – including more than $8 billion in private- and public-sector commitments. President Kennedy once told the World Food Congress: 'We have the capacity to eliminate hunger from the face of the earth in our lifetime. We need only the will.' Guided by @RepMcGovern's leadership of the House Hunger Caucus, we have proudly stood with the grassroots activists working to end hunger once and for all. @HouseDemocrats will never relent in our fight to build a future free from hunger, food insecurity & diet-related disease." [Tweets, 9/28/22]
House Majority Leader Steny Hoyer: "I commend President Biden for hosting the first White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in more than fifty years. Although we understand so much more about this issue – especially the role of good nutrition in preventing disease and in contributing to children's educational performance – than we did half a century ago, hunger remains a critical problem in America and demands our full attention. Millions of American households still lack the resources necessary to put food on the table consistently. Fortunately, President Biden's new national strategy on hunger secures an additional $8 billion in public and private funding to help ensure that everyone in America has access to the healthy food they need to learn, grow, and succeed. The White House conference builds on the progress our Democratic House Majority has made to combat hunger in the United States. After COVID-19 dramatically exacerbated food insecurity, malnutrition, and the health risks associated with diet-related illnesses such as obesity, House Democrats worked swiftly to pass the American Rescue Plan. Not only did that landmark legislation put money back into Americans' pockets and shots into their arms; it also included $12 billion in federal funding for nutritional assistance to help Americans continue to feed themselves and their families. The pandemic also highlighted the importance of the school meals that feed more than 22 million children. House Democrats helped enact key laws to grant schools greater resources and flexibility to continue providing nutritious meals to their students throughout the pandemic -- including during the summer. I'm grateful to members of the House Hunger Caucus, including Chairman Jim McGovern, for continuing to develop new solutions to address the immediate effects and underlying causes of hunger in America. I am also thankful for the leadership of Chairwoman Barbara Lee of the Majority Leader Task Force on Poverty and Opportunity, which continues to raise and explore issues of hunger and food insecurity in our country. It is both morally and economically unacceptable to allow hunger to persist in the United States. Americans need access to healthy, affordable food in order to build strong families and to contribute to their communities and country. House Democrats are committed to ending hunger and all the harm it causes once and for all, and today's conference will help guide that noble mission." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow: "Ending hunger takes ideas from everywhere. Thrilled to join my friends @chefjoseandres, @SenBooker, @RepMcGovern, and @rosadelauro to explore ways to fight food insecurity and boost healthy eating too!" [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Colorado Senator Michael Bennet: "Glad to see a return of the @WhiteHouse Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, & Health. Last year, in large part due to the #ChildTaxCredit, hunger dropped to its lowest rate in two decades. Bringing it back is a first step to ending child hunger in America." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Indiana Senator Mike Braun: "When you have the three words we have up there, hunger, health, and nutrition, there shouldn't be anything partisan about that… We are doers. And I can tell you, in the little under four years I've traveled the state, there's a lot to be optimistic about. We won't solve it here, but this is probably the biggest forum where we need to talk about it." [Video, 9/28/22]
Former Senator Majority Leader Bill Frist: "For nearly 12 years as a cardiac surgeon, a heart surgeon, I operated five days a week on people's hearts… Each day, I'd have the opportunity to palpate that artery and come face to face with what nutrition is all about… As a former senator I've spent my post-legislative career focused on health equity and particularly on population health and what we now know as 'food is medicine.' And I'm thrilled to be with all of you for this fantastic panel today." [Video, 9/28/2022]
Chairman of the House Education and Labor Committee, Virginia Congressman Bobby Scott: "I applaud President Biden for organizing the first White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in more than a half a century. We know that, even before the pandemic, far too many Americans struggled to put healthy food on the table. The White House conference is an important opportunity to develop a national strategy to end hunger and reaffirm our commitment to achieving a healthier and brighter future for all." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Chairwoman of the Nutrition, Oversight, and Department Operations Subcommittee on the House of Agriculture Committee, Connecticut Congresswoman Jahana Hayes: "In 1969, the first White House Conference on Food, Nutrition, and Health helped galvanize and expand critical life-sustaining programs, including school lunches and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC). Today, over fifty years later, leaders from across the nation are gathered to strategize once again to end hunger. Food insecurity persists due to outdated benefit levels, food deserts, underfunding, barriers between communities and local agricultural producers, and lack of outreach or nutrition education. I am thrilled to see my legislation incorporated into the Biden-Harris national strategy. This conference will bring critical insight into how we can build upon these policies and directly target the root causes of hunger and food insecurity. I sincerely thank President Biden and Chairman Jim McGovern for their partnership in making the White House Conference on Hunger a reality. I look forward to continuing this work to keep our communities healthy, fed, and safe." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Chairwoman of the House Appropriations Committee, Connecticut Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro: "Today, I'm participating in the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health - which I helped fund as Chair of the House Appropriations Committee. It's time we end hunger in the U.S. by enacting policies, like the monthly Child Tax Credit, that help keep families fed." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee, New Jersey Congressman Frank Pallone: "Grateful for all the work @POTUS and @HouseDemocrats have done to reduce hunger nationwide." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Chairman of the House Rules Committee, Massachusetts Congressman Jim McGovern: "Thank you @POTUS Biden for bringing together Americans from across the country unified under the goal to #EndHungerNow #WHConfHungerHealth" [Tweet, 9/28/22]
California Congressman Salud Carbajal: "Proud to represent the Central Coast at the first @WhiteHouse Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, & Health in 50 years! Thank you @POTUS for your leadership in convening experts & advocates from across the nation to ensure no American goes hungry. #WHConfHungerHealth" [Tweet, 9/28/22]
California Congresswoman Barbara Lee: "Excited to be here at the first @WhiteHouse Conference on Hunger in over 50 years! This is a prime opportunity for us to examine the root causes of hunger, proclaim structural racism as a barrier to access to nutrition, & identify solutions. #EndHunger" [Tweet, 9/28/22]
California Congresswoman Dori Matsui: "Today I'm attending the @WhiteHouse Conference on Food, Nutrition, and Health to work with the Biden-Harris Administration towards ending hunger and building a healthy future for all Americans." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Illinois Congressman Sean Casten: "In 2021, 1 in 8 children were at risk for hunger in America. I'm glad to see that the @WhiteHouse has made an $8 billion commitment to address this crisis and end hunger in the U.S. by 2030." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Illinois Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky: "Today, @POTUS is convening the WH Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health to unify Americans around the goal of ending hunger and reducing diet-related diseases by 2030. As the richest country in the world at the richest time in the world, we have made hunger a choice." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Maryland Congressman Jamie Raskin: "Thrilled that President Biden is convening food systems experts, sustainable eating activists & industry leaders for the @WhiteHouse Conference on Hunger, Nutrition and Health. A strong democracy requires a healthy, well-fed people." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Michigan Congressman Andy Levin: "Today, @POTUS is hosting the 2nd White House Summit on Hunger in our nation's history. I've proudly championed several bills to strengthen our country's food safety net through programs like WIC. Let us usher in a renewed movement to tackle hunger across the nation and globe!" [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Minnesota Congresswoman Betty McCollum: "Today's White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health is the first #WHConfHungerHealth since 1969! We can unite as Americans around the goal of ending hunger & reducing diet-related diseases by 2030, while keeping historically excluded communities front & center." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Minnesota Congresswoman Ilhan Omar: "About to get started at the White House's Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health. As a woman who survived war and living in a refugee camp, I know the deep pangs of hunger firsthand. I'm grateful to President Biden for leading on this issue. Together, we can end hunger." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Missouri Congressman Emanuel Cleaver: "The first #WHConfHungerHealth in 50 years sends a clear message that bold action to #EndHunger is critically necessary & I remain committed to working across the aisle to see that child hunger in the U.S. is met with Congressional action. I am thrilled to see @POTUS make addressing hunger & diet-related illness a priority of the Biden-Harris administration." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
New Mexico Congresswoman Melanie Stansbury: "Today, I am attending the White House Hunger Conference with @POTUS and fellow Members of the Hunger Caucus and leaders across the country. As 1 in 4 children in New Mexico face food insecurity, we're building on our work in the #NMleg to ensure that no child goes hungry." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
New York Congresswoman Grace Meng: "Great to be with amazing New Yorkers at the first White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in over 50 years. No American should have to choose between feeding themselves and paying for other necessities. Today we are building the movement to #EndHungerNow." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
North Carolina Congresswoman Deborah Ross: "Everyone deserves access to sufficient and nutritious food. Today the @WhiteHouse is holding the first Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, & Health in 50 years. Thank you @POTUS & @RepMcGovern for your leadership on this and your commitment to ending hunger and food insecurity." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Oregon Congresswoman Suzanne Bonamici: "Today I'm joining @POTUS at the #WHConfHungerHealth. As a leader on the @EdLaborCmte & the Congressional Hunger Caucus, I have long been committed to finding solutions to #endhunger, improve access to nutritious foods, and strengthen our nation's food system." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Pennsylvania Congressman Brendan Boyle: "I applaud The @WhiteHouse for holding the first WH conference on hunger and nutrition in a half century." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Local Leaders
New York City, New York Mayor Eric Adams: "America's food system is feeding a public health crisis. From obesity to type 2 diabetes, that crisis is escalating quickly – and we must act now." [Tweet, 09/28/2022]
Birmingham, Alabama Mayor Randall Woodfin: "Food insecurity is a concern for too many American families - excited to see @Shipt CEO Kamau Witherspoon at the #WHConfHungerHealth sharing new initiatives to tackle this problem." [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Columbus, Ohio Mayor Andy Ginther: "Combating food insecurity requires us all to work together. That's why we are proud to announce our partnership with DoorDash to broaden food access across #Columbus in support of the @WhiteHouse Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health. #WHConfHungerHealth" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Oakland, California Mayor Libby Schaaf: "Today's @WhiteHouse Conf. on Hunger and Health shines a light on the need to improve food access in the U.S. As part of our efforts to combat food insecurity in Oakland, we are partnering with @DoorDash on charitable food deliveries, meals thru Community Credits + ProjectDASH." [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Cherokee Nation: "Principal Chief @ChuckHoskin_Jr joined dozens of national leaders today for the @WhiteHouse Conference on Hunger, Nutrition and Health. The event hosted by @POTUS was the first of its kind in more than 50 years. #WHConfHungerHealth  Read more here: https://anadisgoi.com/index.php/government-stories/1094-cherokee-nation-principal-chief-attends-white-house-conference-on-hunger-nutrition-and-health" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Democratic Mayors: "At the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health, @POTUS announced more than $8 billion in private and public sector commitments to help the nation end hunger, reduce diet-related diseases, and eliminate health disparities." [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Oklahoma Secretary of Human Services Justin Brown: "It's been more than 50 years since our nation has held a White House Conference on Hunger. Thankful to participate in the important conversation to end hunger through structural transformation helping families lift themselves out of cycles of multi-generational poverty." [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
HI First Lady Dawn Ige: "White House Conference on Hunger Nutrition and Health in Washington, D.C. with President Biden, community and government leaders to explore solutions to end hunger and increase healthy choices. Working together, we can meet the challenges ahead." [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Advocacy Organizations and Advocates
Louisiana Department of Children and Family Services: "NOW! @LouisianaDCFS Assistant Secretary of Family Support Shavana Howard is at @WhiteHouse taking part in Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health. Her panel is discussing how to improving food access and affordability." [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
National Association of Counties: "#NACoBlog: White House releases National Strategy to #EndHunger, improve nutrition & physical activity and decrease diet-related diseases 2030. #County leaders played an active role in the development of the National Strategy" [Pennington Biomedical R Our leadership is attending the White House Conference on Hunger, Health, & Nutrition. Thank you @BillCassidy for speaking at the Louisiana Convening and ensuring someone from Louisiana (@DrJohnKirwan) is participating in this historical meeting in #DC today. #WHConfHungerHealthesearch Center" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
National League of Cities: "Local leaders work hard every day to create healthy and thriving economies. We applaud @POTUS for crafting a national strategy that addresses the hunger, nutrition and health challenges facing our nation" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Pennington Biomedical Research Center: "Our leadership is attending the White House Conference on Hunger, Health, & Nutrition. Thank you @BillCassidy for speaking at the Louisiana Convening and ensuring someone from Louisiana (@DrJohnKirwan) is participating in this historical meeting in #DC today. #WHConfHungerHealth" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Joel Berg, CEO, Hunger Free America: "We could not be more pleased by the news today that the White House intends to propose a bold but realistic plan to end hunger and boost nutrition by 2030. With a focus on poverty reduction, higher minimum wages, extended child tax credits, and an expanded federal safety net, including SNAP, WIC, and School Meals, it's clear that this administration is focused on concrete solutions for ending hunger in America. This announcement comes just ahead of the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health, the first such conference in over 50 years. We at Hunger Free America are particularly gratified to see so many of our recommendations adopted as part of this proposal. We pledge our long-term support for this plan and its implementation."
Native American Agriculture Fund: "NAAF commits more than $100 million over the next 12 years to advance #NativeAg and establish healthy lands, healthy, people, and healthy economies. NAAF CEO at #WHConfHungerHealth with @SenateAgDems Chairwoman @SenStabenow, @USFRA CEO @FoodAgFitz, & @ntfb Valerie Hawthorne" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Alameda County Community Food Bank: "Today is the historic #WHConfHungerHealth! Ahead of the conference, ACCFB submitted our recommendations addressing why hunger exists, how it can be eradicated, & our role as a food bank in amplifying the voices of the community members we serve." Read more: http://bit.ly/3eXG6FZ" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
Instituto del Desarrollo de la Juventud: "P.R. was initially excluded from P-EBT and not eligible for advanced CTC payments. It'll take longer for us to see those gains, but we know these programs are transformative for our community. #WHConfHungerHealth" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
National Rural Health Association Advocacy: "Today, the GA team's very own Alexa McKinley is headed to the @WhiteHouse for the WH Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health. Alexa will have the chance to hear speakers and bring the rural voice to the conversation. #WHConfHungerHealth" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
NYC Food: "Ahead of tomorrow's White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health, the WH released a national strategy for ending hunger in the United States by 2030." [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
The Leadership Conference: "@POTUS at today's #WHConfHungerHealth: "The expanded child tax credit is one of the most effective programs we've ever seen. And that's why my national strategy calls on Congress to expand the child credit permanently." Congress must get this done. #ChildTaxCredit" [Tweet, 9/28/2022]
National Farmers Union: "We're proud to participate in this event, which is the first of its kind since 1969. We stand with the anti-hunger community to promote food and nutrition security across the country." [Tweet, 9/28/22]
Bruce Lesley, President First Focus on Children: "Today's conference represents the first serious look at hunger and nutrition in this country in a half-century and the first opportunity to end childhood hunger and all of its detrimental effects. Over the last three years we've learned that government policy can in fact reduce hunger and food insecurity among children and we urge attendees to outline concrete steps for achieving that goal and to rely on these proven policies. We are encouraged by the focus on addressing children's and families' access to affordable food and supporting children's play spaces, and applaud the comprehensive approach to solving these issues taken by the Biden Adminstration strategy released in advance of today's event. By acknowledging the interconnected factors that affect children's nutritional health — economic and geographic inequities, lack of knowledge on importance of nutrition, racial and ethnic background — lawmakers have the tools to produce clear solutions." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Vince Hall, Chief Government Relations Officer Feeding America: "Feeding America, the nation's largest domestic hunger-relief organization, applauds the White House for envisioning an America without hunger and releasing a new national strategy to end hunger in our country by 2030. This strategy builds on existing programs to ensure the food and nutrition security of the millions of Americans who face challenges putting food on the table. By expanding access to these programs, centering equity and focusing on ways to reduce disparities and poverty, we can help ensure everyone has access to the food and resources they say they need to thrive, regardless of their race, background or ZIP code. As this national strategy is discussed during tomorrow's White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health and beyond, policymakers must remember that to end hunger, we need to listen to the people experiencing it. Insights from people facing hunger can help Congress and the administration create anti-hunger policies that more effectively meet people where they are and meet their needs. The Feeding America network of 200 food banks, 21 statewide associations and 60,000 faith-based and charitable partner food pantries and meal programs is committed to elevating the voices of people facing hunger. Through this summer's Elevating Voices to End Hunger Together nationwide community listening initiative, we gathered input on anti-hunger solutions from nearly 36,000 people across all 50 states, Washington, D.C., and Puerto Rico who have faced challenges getting the food they need. Last week, we released a report outlining these community-driven solutions to end America's hunger crisis. There is common ground between the actions outlined in the White House's national strategy and the policies largely supported by the people facing hunger who shared their insights with Feeding America over the summer. In a survey conducted as part of our Elevating Voices initiative, 92% of respondents agreed that to actually reduce hunger, the government, the private sector, nonprofits, local institutions and communities must come together to create solutions. Feeding America also believes that bold solutions require broad support. We are committed to working alongside people facing hunger, the administration, Congress and other partners to advance policies that will help our neighbors in need build a path to a brighter, food-secure future. Together, we can end hunger in America." [Statement, 9/27/22]
Anne Filipic, CEO Share Our Strength: "For this nation to build a healthy, educated, equitable future, we must address the wellbeing of our children. And we know what works. Recent data clearly shows the impact that programs and policies can have in dramatically reducing both child poverty and hunger. To achieve lasting change, however, we must collectively prioritize this work and commit to action." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Billy Shore, Founder and Executive Chair, Share Our Strength: "Hunger remains one of our nation's most solvable problems. The White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition and Health will help build the political will to achieve this and bring together diverse perspectives, experiences, and knowledge in pursuit of a stronger, healthier nation with more opportunity for all. The national strategy that emerges, especially with its focus on children, has the potential to create unity in our too-often divided country." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Luis Guardia, President Food Research & Action Center: "The Food Research & Action Center is pleased that the "National Strategy on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health," released today by the Biden-Harris administration, heeds the calls of anti-hunger organizations to build on the lessons learned from the pandemic, including bolstering federal nutrition programs, to effectively end hunger in the U.S. by 2030. The strategy reflects some of the priorities FRAC laid out in its recommendations for the administration, which will be discussed at the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health, taking place on September 28. The last conference of its kind was held in 1969 and proved to be a monumental catalyst for change, advancing policies and legislation that greatly improved access and expansion to the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), and school meals. More than 50 years later, the strategy released today recognizes that the federal nutrition programs remain among our nation's most important, proven, and cost-effective public interventions." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Brian Dittmeier, Senior Director of Public Policy National WIC Association: "The upcoming White House Conference focuses on the most fundamental of kitchen table issues: what we feed our children and how it affects their long-term health. In this nation of abundance, no family should be priced out of the healthy foods that children need to grow and thrive. With one-in-five children in the United States affected by obesity, the Biden-Harris administration wisely sets forth a whole-of-government and multi-sector approach that will dismantle barriers to food access, curb chronic-diet related conditions and reduce overall healthcare costs. This actionable National Strategy amplifies WIC's early nutrition intervention as a major force in closing disparities and setting the stage for a healthier next generation." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Leslie G. Sarasin, President and CEO of FMI, The Food Industry Association: "The food industry has a critical role to play in addressing hunger and helping to improve the nutrition and health of all Americans. Grocery stores serve as accessible, convenient, community-based destinations for feeding assistance, preventive care, nutrition guidance, and nourishing, practical meal solutions. It will take all of us working together to achieve these goals; I have full confidence in the food industry's spirit of innovation and collaboration to not only reach these goals, but far exceed them. We look forward to continuing to work with the White House, members of Congress, our industry partners and other stakeholders to ensure all Americans have access to healthy, nourishing foods." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Jim Mulhern, President and CEO National Milk Producers Federation: "I would like to thank the White House for inviting me to today's White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health. Ensuring people have access to the nutrition they need to live, develop, and be healthy is key priority for dairy farmers across the U.S. We are hopeful today will serve as a launching pad for the dedication and collaboration we will need to end food insecurity and reduce diet-related disease in the U.S., goals NMPF shares with the conference. We know from decades of working in this area that dairy products — and the 13 essential nutrients they provide such as protein, calcium, Vitamin D and potassium — will be vital ingredients to meeting these goals. The Dietary Guidelines for Americans (DGA) shows that dietary patterns that include dairy are associated with beneficial health outcomes, such as lowered risk for cardiovascular disease, obesity, and type 2 diabetes. The guidelines also note that dairy is under-consumed across all age categories. Scientific evidence clearly indicates that milk and dairy foods are part of the solution to challenges like food and nutrition insecurity, health equity, and diet-related and other noncommunicable diseases. To prepare for the conference, NMPF worked with other agricultural, anti-hunger, nutrition and medical groups to urge the White House to place a high priority on access to affordable, diverse and healthful foods, which includes protecting Americans' ability to make informed, meaningful choices about what they eat. NMPF is pleased to see in the White House's strategy released yesterday a commitment to increased access to affordable food for all and culturally appropriate food options and recommendations. We are also heartened by the strategy's consistent emphasis on increasing consumption of healthful foods to levels recommended in the dietary guidelines. NMPF looks forward to continuing to work with all stakeholders inside and outside government to improve nutrition security and diet-related health for all Americans. Together we can realize the policies and programs required to achieve these important goals, including increasing access to affordable food and strengthening Americans' ability to make informed, meaningful choices across all populations." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Curt Ellis and Dr. Robert S. Harvey, Co-Founders & CEO and President FoodCorps: "President Biden's National Strategy on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health announced today marks a clear step forward toward a more nourishing future for our nation's students and sets in motion the four core policy recommendations that FoodCorps prioritized and advanced to support our children's nutrition, health, and sense of belonging at school. Among the priorities announced today in line with FoodCorps' recommendations are advancing a pathway to free, healthy school meals for all; increasing access to local and regional food; enabling more scratch-cooking in schools through increased funding of training and kitchen equipment; and investing in the school nutrition workforce. In addition, the strategy calls for developing and expanding food and nutrition education – a key critical solution that encourages children to eat more nutritious foods, fosters kids' identities and cultures through their meals, and lays a foundation for healthier and more successful lives. We are heartened that the Biden-Harris Administration and the trailblazers behind tomorrow's Conference of Hunger, Nutrition, and Health are using their power to celebrate community voices and share lived experiences of hunger and nutrition in America, and we applaud the policy priorities that will make an impact on our children for decades to come." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Kamau Witherspoon, CEO Shipt: "Far too many Americans face food insecurity in our country. When I think about our company we are a people 1st company. We know when we can combine our delivery capabilities w/ our personal shopping & our technology we can extend the reach of retailers & reduce & in some cases actually remove the barriers that exist w/ access to food. One of the new commitments we are excited to announce today is our accelerator that combines our values of putting people first and doing our part to tackle issues around food insecurity and our passion for supporting small business." [Tweet thread, 9/28/22]
Michelle Korsmo, President & CEO, National Restaurant Association: "Restaurants are an extension of families' dining room tables. The restaurant and foodservice industry is proud to partner with parents and caregivers to provide choices that include better-for-you options for kids. Growing the Kids LiveWell program furthers our investment in overall health and nutrition, and with nearly 60,000 restaurants participating, parents have more options in more places. We believe restaurants of all sizes find value in participating in Kids LiveWell. We look forward to strengthening the program through the commitments we've made during our participation in the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition and Health." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Randy Edeker, Chairman and CEO Hy-Vee: "[Hy-Vee] will deliver 30 million meals to vulnerable communities by 2025, as well as deploy its registered dietitian team to educate 100,000 Americans in areas of low food access on healthy eating and nutrition by 2026. The commitment builds on the company's long-standing focus and ongoing community efforts to fight hunger. During these challenging economic times, we know more families are turning to food banks and community resources for assistance, and that's where we can help. By providing 30 million meals by 2025 and providing health and nutrition education to 100,000 Americans by 2026, we can better the lives of those families who are currently food insecure. Our ultimate goal is to help eliminate hunger and connect with those in need, because no one should ever have to worry about where their next meal will come from." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Dr. Rajiv J. Shah, President The Rockefeller Foundation, and Nancy Brown CEO American Heart Association on New Food Is Medicine Research Initiative: "Good food is the foundation of good health. Unfortunately, for far too many Americans — especially Black, Latino/a, and Native Americans — affordable, nutritious food is out of reach. The negative effects of this are evident: Chronic diseases, including cardiovascular disease, stroke, and diabetes, are among the leading causes of death in the United States, disproportionately affecting BIPOC and low-income communities. Heart disease and stroke cost the U.S. health care system $216 billion annually and cause $147 billion in lost job productivity. For those reasons, The Rockefeller Foundation and the American Heart Association, with inaugural partner Kroger, announced today at the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health a plan to mobilize $250 million to build a national Food is Medicine Research Initiative. Launching in spring of 2023, this Initiative will generate evidence and tools to help the health sector design and scale programs that increase access to nutritious food, improve both health and health equity, and reduce overall health care costs." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Steven C. Anderson, President and CEO of National Association of Chain Drug Stores: "We are proud to support the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition and Health. Americans got to know us well during the COVID-19 pandemic as the pharmacies and retail stores that stepped up to meet patients where they are — delivering equitable and convenient access to COVID-19 vaccinations and other services. In fact, 2-in-3 COVID-19 vaccinations are given in pharmacies, and pharmacists and pharmacy staff have administered more than 266 million COVID-19 vaccinations to date. NACDS members are applying that same trust and convenience in other ways that may not yet be fully realized. In the pharmacy, in food offerings, throughout the total store, and in partnership with communities, NACDS members are driving hunger-relief efforts, providing prevention and management services for chronic disease, and addressing broader health and wellness issues." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Brian Nightingale, Chair of National Association of Chain Drug Stores and President Good Neighbor Pharmacy: "I am excited for NACDS and our diverse membership to be part of this important White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health. Pharmacies have a tremendous role to play in the healthcare ecosystem, and they are among the most accessible and trustworthy health and wellness destinations — with 90 percent of Americans living within 5 miles of a pharmacy. Our industry places a strong emphasis on core health and wellness issues, including food as medicine, chronic disease prevention, health equity, and addressing social issues surrounding health. Delivering a comprehensive approach to treat the whole person is our priority focus. The White House Conference is a tremendous opportunity to discuss ways to further leverage pharmacies, so that we can work to end hunger, improve nutrition and health, and reduce disparities." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Shane Grant, CEO Danone North America: "We are honored to have the opportunity to be part of the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health – an event which provides a historic opportunity to engage stakeholders across the food system to address these critical topics." He added, "At Danone, our mission to bring health through food to as many people as possible is embedded into everything we do and for the last 50 years we've worked to create both shareholder and societal value through what we call our Dual Project. The investment we announced today illustrates our mission in action." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Bechara Choucair, MD Senior Vice President and Chief Health Officer Kaiser Permanente: "When people are hungry, or lack proper nutrition or equitable access to the food they require to address their most pressing medical needs, they are less likely to get or stay healthy," said Bechara Choucair, MD, senior vice president and chief health officer at Kaiser Permanente. "This is a landmark opportunity to reimagine what the food and nutrition landscape can and should look like as part of a healthier, more equitable society." [Statement, 9/28/22]
Mike Lavender, NSAC Interim Policy Director National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition: "The National Sustainable Agriculture Coalition (NSAC) applauds the announcement of the National Strategy on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health, ahead of the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health. This whole-government strategy outlines a bold and essential commitment to ending hunger, promoting healthy eating, and increasing physical activity by 2030. The Strategy proposes investments in local and regional food systems and science-based research, expanded incentives for fruit and vegetable consumption, and improving access to healthy meals for children. Importantly, the Strategy also highlights the need to target investments in support of historically underserved communities, areas, and individuals, including farmers. NSAC believes that the path to long-term success in reducing hunger, malnutrition, and diet-related disease requires a holistic approach to the food and agricultural system that includes but is not limited to the proposals in the Strategy. That is why, in a recent joint effort, NSAC called on the Administration to ensure a comprehensive response, one that also considers how America produces, distributes, and makes use of its food. We look forward to working with the Administration in the upcoming farm bill reauthorization and beyond, to develop and implement many of the investments and strategies that they have outlined." [Statement, 9/28/22]
  