
    Representative Joelle Martin and Democratic Town Chair Polly Wessel join other Granite State leaders in supporting Harris
Following Senator Kamala Harris' strong performance during Thursday night's debate, two key Granite State leaders are endorsing Harris for president.
Citing her 3 AM agenda to help working families and ability to beat Donald Trump, two-term State Representative Joelle Martin and New Durham Democratic Town Chair Polly Wessel have thrown their support behind Harris.
"Tonight, Kamala Harris proved once again that she is the absolute best candidate to take on Donald Trump and lead our country forward. She has the smarts, strength, and the heart to achieve justice for all Americans. Her track record in this regard is clear: she has shown a tenacious ability to prosecute powerful interests and hold them accountable, whether it's big businesses wronging consumers, Attorney General Barr, or Trump himself," said State Representative Joelle Martin. "This record is coupled with her pragmatic and collaborative approach to problem solving. Kamala's passion, voice for justice, and toughness are exactly what we need right now. With her as president, America will be a country where everyone can thrive, and a country that can trust and be proud of their leader. I'm so proud to endorse her campaign."
"After carefully observing and examining the plans of the various candidates, I will personally vote for Kamala Harris because she is smart, tough and self-aware," added Polly Wessel, Chair of the New Durham Democrats. "She has been the effective head of a large organization – which means she knows how to delegate. Above all, she will restore our standing in the world due to her high standards of ethical behavior. We need her leadership now!"
Martin, the Vice Chair of the New Hampshire House of Representatives Finance Division III and former special education teacher, was the only Democrat to win in her district in 20 years. She and Wessel join a large and growing group of Granite State leaders who have endorsed Harris, including numerous other members of State House leadership, a former NHDP Chair, the Co-Chair and Vice Chair of the NHDP African American Caucus, the Co-Chair of the NHDP Senior Caucus, key activists, and many others.
  