
    Mitt Romney today announced the support of Michigan Speaker of the House Jase Bolger.
"I am proud to announce the addition of Speaker Bolger to my growing Michigan team," said Mitt Romney. "Speaker Bolger joins an already impressive team that will be critical as I campaign in Michigan and spread my message of job creation, less spending, and lower taxes."
Speaker Bolger, who will serve as a Co-Chair of the Michigan campaign, announced his support saying, "Michigan voters have seen firsthand failed policy after failed policy of government creating an environment in which job providers cannot thrive. We have worked hard in the state Legislature to start making Michigan a more competitive place to provide a job, so that it's easier for our citizens to find a career. Mitt Romney has a record of results as a job creator and a governor. Every conversation I've had with Mitt has focused on how he can make America more competitive and how he can work with us to bring more opportunities to Michigan. Of all the candidates, he has the most economic experience. Mitt Romney knows what it will take to get the national economy on the right track so that economic recovery is possible for states like Michigan."
In addition to Speaker Bolger, the following members of the Michigan Legislature announced their support for Mitt Romney:

State Senator Dave Hildenbrand
State Senator Jim Marleau
State Senator John Pappageorge
State Representative Kurt Damrow
State Representative Joe Haveman
State Representative Chuck Moss
State Representative Margaret O'Brien
State Representative Wayne Schmidt

These legislators join previously released members of the Michigan Legislature supporting Governor Mitt Romney:

Senate Majority Leader Randy Richardville – Statewide Campaign Co-Chair
State Senator Rick Jones
State Senator Roger Kahn
State Senator Mike Kowall
State Senator Phil Pavlov
State Senator Tonya Schuitmaker
State Representative Dave Agema
State Representative Jon Bumstead
State Representative Frank Foster
State Representative Kurt Heise
State Representative Marty Knollenberg
State Representative Eileen Kowall
State Representative Matt Lori
State Representative Greg MacMaster
State Representative Mark Ouimet
State Representative Lisa Posthumus-Lyons
State Representative Paul Scott
State Representative John Walsh
State Representative Dale Zorn

Background on Jase Bolger:
Speaker Bolger Was First Elected To The State Legislature In 2008. Prior to his election to the Michigan House, Bolger was a Calhoun County Commissioner. Bolger is the founder of a small business that brings work to Michigan and has focused his legislative service on bringing more career opportunities to Michiganders.
  