
    Richardson honors victims of AIDS, including friend Billy Griego
LOS ANGELES, CA -- New Mexico Governor Bill Richardson spoke today at the dedication of The Wall Las Memorias project in Los Angeles, California.
Governor Richardson talked about his friend Billy Griego, who passed away after battling AIDS.
"When I was first getting ready to run for Congress, people told me that I could not win -- I did not have enough money or support," Governor Richardson said. "But what I did have was Billy Griego."
Griego volunteered his time on that campaign on behalf of Richardson. Later, Griego walked into a constituent meeting with then-Congressman Richardson in his district. Griego did not say anything about the disease, but Richardson could tell that something was wrong. About a year later, Griego passed away.
"He never told anybody," Governor Richardson said. "Back in the eighties, it just was not talked about."
When California State Senator Gil Cedillo called Governor Richardson about getting involved with the The Wall Las Memorias project, Richardson asked for Billy Griego's name to be inscribed on the monument. Richardson was granted his wish.
"Billy was a dear friend, and I am proud that we have passed the Billy Griego HIV and AIDS Act in New Mexico to ensure that consumers are the focus of the funding and services provided in all our state's HIV and AIDS cases," Governor Richardson said. "We can never remember our departed friends too much."
Governor Richardson spoke in both English and Spanish to the assembled clergy, elected officials, friends, and families in Los Angeles. He urged a strong, long-term commitment to fighting AIDS and HIV worldwide.
"I am here today because I think that this monument is an important part of our fight against HIV and AIDS across this country and around the world," Governor Richardson said. "It is important because it is a reminder painted on steel of the innocent victims of this terrible disease. It is a reminder that our commitment to eradicating this disease must be made of the same steel -- it must be unbreakable and immovable.
"I strongly believe that the global fight against HIV/AIDS is one of the great moral challenges of our generation. In this battle, our moral outrage at the destructiveness of the disease must be matched by a financial dedication to destroying it."
  