
    Mr. President, it is a great pleasure and privilege for me to welcome you to the United States for this state visit. The President of Colombia, His Excellency Dr. Alfonso Lopez Michelsen, and his wife, the distinguished First Lady of Colombia, Dona Cecilia:
President Lopez is no stranger to the United States. As a young man he studied here briefly. Also, I am told he and Mrs. Lopez spent part of their honeymoon in Williamsburg, Virginia.
During his long and distinguished service in his country, he has frequently visited the United States in various important official capacities. His election as President was one of the largest votes in Colombia's history.
It is indeed a great personal pleasure for me to welcome him to the United States once again. This time the United States honors him as a Chief of State of Colombia, the first Latin American chief executive I have had the privilege of welcoming to Washington for a state dinner.
President Lopez represents a nation with a long tradition of democratic government. Colombia's friendship with the United States is characterized by the mutual respect each of our two nations has for the independent ideas and sovereign integrity of the other.
As a respected intellectual, author, and statesman, Dr. Lopez has been a champion of the idea that relationships between nations must be based on the rule of law, nonintervention, and respect for national sovereignty.
He voiced that conviction in an address to the Council on Foreign Relations in New York, in January of 1974, when he said, and I quote: "For a country like ours, there is only one guarantee for survival: the effective application of international law, a deep sense of human solidarity, and the principle of self-determination of nations."
Your visit, Mr. President, is timely indeed. The nations of the world face pressing issues in international trade, in monetary policy, and the challenges of explosive scientific and technological progress. The problems of peace, justice, hunger, inflation, and pollution can no longer be solved by each nation alone.
Each of us now is caught in the same tide of world events--consumer and producer, rich and poor, powerful and weak. We must, therefore, work together for the solution of our problems. We must step up our efforts to modernize and strengthen our hemispheric relations.
The nations of Latin America share the same intricate web of social, political, and economic elements which comprise the civilization of the Western World. At the same time, they share the problems of developing societies elsewhere in the world.
All of these circumstances provide an important bond linking our two nations which have a long, long tradition of friendly relations based on respect for each other's sovereignty and independence.
That is why I have invited President Lopez to visit Washington. We have much to talk about. I look forward to our frank and candid discussions. We expect to examine carefully our bilateral relations and their probable future course. We will review together the issues of current concern in the inter-American system and the alternatives that open into the future. We will discuss world issues of particular concern to our two countries.
I know that the intellect and statesmanship of President Lopez will further our common quest for constructive solutions and mutual understanding.
And so, as you say, Mr. President, bienvenido.
  