
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. O'Halleran, D-AZ, and 9 cosponsors)
The Administration opposes passage of H.R. 4447. The Administration supports clean energy, job development, and the innovation economy and adheres to a bottom-up energy philosophy that promotes free-markets, funds scientific research, and honors the choices of producers and consumers. This bill, however, would implement a top-down approach that would undermine the Administration's deregulatory agenda and empower the government to select favored solutions while reinstating big-government policies and programs.
H.R. 4447 would lead to higher energy costs and discourage innovation and entrepreneurship. This legislation would bypass well-established processes and procedures and would impose substantial, unwarranted costs on Federal, State, and local agencies and other key stakeholders in both public and private sectors. It would do so by setting rigid energy savings and water consumption reduction targets for Federal agencies, requiring State and local governments to establish strict building codes that are not grounded in available technologies, and mandating a rigorous transition from hydrofluorocarbon use in the private heating and cooling sector.
H.R. 4447 also fails on several other measures. Its proposed creation of new workforce development, training, and other related programs is unnecessary and would lead to greater fragmentation of the workforce system and duplication of efforts between Federal agencies. To support the substantial costs of these programs, the bill would authorize billions in new annual spending. It would also create a "green bank" that would subsidize projects similar to well-known failures like Solyndra. It ignores the importance of permitting reform while endorsing more government control and mandates on goods and products without consideration of the cost to consumers. It would also set up new mandates and regulations that would undo the Administration's significant progress in lowering emissions and cleaning our air and water. Finally, H.R. 4447 would interfere with how we have been designing our own energy and environment destiny free from the reins of the Paris Climate Accord and international agreements or organizations that ignore the clear lessons that have led to American energy independence.
Since January 2017, the United States has experienced a remarkable turnaround in its energy fortunes. In a few short years, our Nation has achieved energy independence and become a net energy exporter and a world energy powerhouse. We have increased exports of United States Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) by nearly five-fold and issued 20 long-term authorizations for LNG exports to non-free trade agreement countries. The United States is the number one producer of oil in the world and has maintained its status as the top producer of nuclear power and the top producer of natural gas, as well as the world's second-leading generator of wind and solar power. Crucially, while dominating in energy production, the United States continues to lead the world in reducing energy-related carbon dioxide emissions. Americans now have greater access to energy that is abundant, affordable, clean, and reliable, and the Administration looks forward to continuing our successful approach to build on these achievements.
If H.R. 4447 were presented to the President, his advisors would recommend that he veto the bill.
  