
    Pool Reports by Michael Shear, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 19, 202309:54

Travel pool report #1 — awaiting departure for the UN
Good morning from a sunny NYC.
The pool is assembled and waiting in the POTUS motorcade for departure to the UN for his speech to the general assembly.
The speech will be streamed live here:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oVIm3oMmIm0
After the speech, POTUS will meet with UN officials, including Secretary-General António Guterres,visit the US mission to the UN and then meet with Central Asian leaders. Later in the evening, POTUS and FLOTUS will host the leaders reception at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art. 
More tk



September 19, 202310:07

Travel Pool Report # 2 — departure for UNGA
POTUS motorcade left the RON at 10:04 am eastern time and we are rolling for the UN
Your pooler did not see POTUS.



September 19, 202310:10

Travel Pool Report #3 — UNGA arrival.
POTUS motorcade arrived at the UN at 10:08 am eastern time after a brief but typically bumpy ride. The sidewalks were closed off and filled with people with their phone cameras as the motorcade drove by.



September 19, 202310:18

Travel pool report #4 — speech begins
POTUS began his remarks at 10:16 am eastern
The UN chamber is largely filled.



September 19, 202310:23

Travel Pool Report #4a — travelers with POTUS
From the WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade en route to the United Nations Headquarters:
Secretary Antony Blinken, Department of StateJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsEthan Rosenzweig, Acting Chief of ProtocolCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryJohn Kirby, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Coordinator for Strategic CommunicationTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesCharlie Fromstein, Director for Visits and Diplomatic Affairs, National Security CouncilAriana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor



September 19, 202310:25

Travel Pool Report #5 — speech attendees
From the WH
The President is delivering remarks before the 78th Session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, New York.
AttendeesT.H. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Representative of the United States to the United NationsT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Michele Sison, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization AffairsT.H. Josh Black, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs, NSC
Speaking ProgramDennis Francis, President of the United Nations General AssemblyThe President



September 19, 202310:48

Travel Pool Report #6 — speech ends
POTUS speech
The POTUS speech ended at 10:44 am eastern
The one time POTUS got applause during the speech was when he pledged to continue supporting Ukraine in the war against Russia. They also applauded when he concluded.
The speech was carried live, but here are some of the topics that POTUS touched on. As always, check quotes against transcript.

the future of Pepfar


security situation in Haiti


Ai. Working to make sure "technologies are safe before they are released to the public."


security and the economy in Central Africa


a pledge to pursue "Responsible managed competition" with china.


The need to work together to confront climate change.


debt in the global south.


Russia is shredding long time arms control conventions.


Iran must never acquire a nuclear weapon.


Ukraine. "If we allow Ukraine to be carved up, is any nation secure?"

More tk



September 19, 202311:46

Travel Pool Report #7 — meeting with Trinidad and Tobago president
From the WH:
The President is participating in a greet with U.N. General Assembly President Dennis Francis of Trinidad and Tobago.



September 19, 202311:48

Travel Pool Report #8 - meeting with secretary general
From the WH:
The President is participating in a greet with United Nations Secretary General António Guterres and is signing the United Nations guest book.



September 19, 202311:57

Travel Pool Report #9 — Meeting with Secretary General António Guterres
From the WH:
The President is participating in a meeting with United Nations Secretary General António Guterres.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Representative of the United States to the United NationsT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Michele Sison, Assistant Secretary of State for International Organization AffairsT.H. Josh Black, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs, NSCMr. Jeffrey Prescott, Deputy to the United States Representative to the United Nations
U.N. ManifestH.E. António Guterres, Secretary General of the United NationsMr. Courtenay Rattray, Chef de CabinetMs. Rosemary A. Dicarlo, Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding Affairs (DPPA)Mr. Selwin Hart, Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Climate Action & Ambition for a Green Transition (CAT)Ms. Michelle Gyles-McDonnough, Director for the Sustainable Development Unit (EOSG)Mr. Miguel Graça, Director for the Office of the Secretary-General (EOSG)Ms. Ciru Mwaura, Director for the Political Unit (EOSG)



September 19, 202315:10

Travel Pool Report #10 — Pool spray with Central Asian leaders
At about 2:58 pm Eastern, pool was ushered into a room for a pool spray at the end of the Central Asia 5 + 1 meeting.
POTUS was sitting at a circular table with the other five leaders. The staff from the leaders, including Jake Sullivan, were sitting in rows of chairs along the sides of the room.
POTUS delivered remarks for about a minute, thanking the other leaders for the meeting and saying that he believes the world will be safer and more prosperous if the nations work together. Please check the official transcript for quotes.
POTUS did not respond to a few shouted questions, including whether he would visit a UAW picket line.
The pool has been moved to the motorcade and are awaiting departure back to the RON, where we are scheduled to hold in advance of the evening reception.
See below for info from the WH about the meeting attendees:
The President is participating in a meeting with Central Asia leaders.
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of State of the United StatesT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Samantha Power, Administrator of the United States Agency for International DevelopmentT.H. Amos Hochstein, Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the President for Energy and InvestmentT.H. Donald Lu, Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian AffairsT.H. Geoffrey Pyatt, Assistant Secretary of State for Energy ResourcesT.H. Nicholas Berliner, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Russia, National Security CouncilMs. Brianne Todd, Director for Central Asia Affairs, National Security CouncilMs. Sara Minkara, U.S. Special Advisor on International Disability Rights
Kazakhstan ManifestH.E. Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, President of the Republic of KazakhstanMr. Murat Nurtleu, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of KazakhstanMr. Erzhan Kazykhan, Assistant to the President for International AffairsMr. Asset Irgaliyev, Assistant to the President for Economic AffairsMr. Kanat Bozumbayev, Advisor to the President of the Republic of KazakhstanMr. Yerzhan Ashikbayev, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Kazakhstan to the United StatesMr. Kairat Umarov, First Deputy Foreign Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan
Kyrgyz Republic ManifestH.E. Mr. Sadyr Zhaparov, President of the Kyrgyz RepublicH.E. Mr. Zheenbek Kulubaev, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Kyrgyz RepublicH.E. Mr. Muratbek Azymbakiev, Head of the Foreign Policy Department of the Administration of President of the Kyrgyz RepublicH.E. Mr. Baktybek Amanbaev, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Kyrgyz Republic to the United States of America and CanadaMr. Erbol Sultanbaev, Press Secretary of President of the Kyrgyz RepublicMr. Azamat Kadyraliev, Assistant of President of the Kyrgyz RepublicMr. Bakyt Dzhusupov, Head of the Department of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
Tajikistan ManifestH.E. Emomali Rahmon, President of the Republic of TajikistanH.E. Sirojiddin Muhriddin, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of TajikistanMr. Azamsho Sharifi, Assistant of the President on Foreign RelationsH.E. Mr. Farrukh Hamralizoda, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Tajikistan to the United StatesH.E. Mr. Jonibek Hikmat, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Tajikistan to the United NationsMr. Shermuhammad Rajabzoda, Chief of ProtocolH.E. Mr. Jamoliddin Abdulozzoda, Minister of Health
Turkmenistan ManifestH.E. Serdar Berdimuhamedov, President of TurkmenistanH.E. Rashid Meredov, Deputy Chairman of Cabinet of Ministers of Turkmenistan and Minister of Foreign AffairsH.E. Hojamyrat Geldimyradov, Deputy Chairman of Cabinet of Ministers of TurkmenistanH.E. Aksoltan Atayeva, Permanent Representative of Turkmenistan to the United NationsH.E. Meret Orazov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of Turkmenistan to the United StatesH.E. Batyr Amanov, Deputy Chairman of Cabinet of Ministers of TurkmenistanMr. Yazgeldi Kakaliyev, Advisor to the President
Uzbekistan ManifestH.E. Shavkay Mirziyoyev, President of the Republic of UzbekistanT.H. Jamshid Khodjaev, Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of UzbekistanT.H. Bakhtiyor Saidov, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of UzbekistanT.H. Abdulaziz Kamilov, Deputy Secretary of the Security Council under the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan & Special Representative of the President of the Republic of Uzbekistan on Foreign Policy IssuesMr. Aziz Magrupov, Assistant of the President of the Republic of UzbekistanMr. Alisher Paygamov, Head of Department of the Administration of the President of the Republic of UzbekistanH.E. Furkat Sidikov, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Uzbekistan to the United States of America



September 19, 202315:23

REAL Travel Pool Report #11 — arrival at RON
For real this time …
POTUS Motorcade departed UNGA at 3:19 pm and arrived at the RON at 3:23 pm eastern time.
The next movement is scheduled for later this evening when POTUS hosts the leaders reception.
More tk



September 19, 202318:20

travel Pool Report #12 — remarks now expected
The WH informs us that the pool will now be allowed to hear POTUS opening remarks at the Leader reception at the Met this evening. Approximate time is 7:15 pm eastern. We are told the remarks should be about 6 minutes in length.
Your pooler will seek to quickly transcribe highlights of the remarks asap.
More tk



September 19, 202319:05

Travel Pool Report #13 — departure for Met
POTUS motorcade departed the RON at 7:04 pm eastern, heading for the Met and the Leader Reception.
Your pooler has not seen POTUS since the pool spray earlier today.
More tk



September 19, 2023
[APP Note: Report #14 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


September 19, 202319:51

Travel Pool Report #15 — Leaders reception remarks.
The pool was led into the Charles Engelhard Court at the Met. The reception was underway, with music playing and people gathered around a golden archer in the center of the room.
Shortly after we arrived, at 7:29, hail to the chief played and POTUS and FLOTUS were announced.
POTUS singled out Gov. Hochul for recognition.
Said the whole world is looking at the US to lead. He said "we face a moment of great upheaval."
He talked about the "brazen attack" against Ukraine by Russia.
POTUS talked about his speech to the UN, saying "we must" confront the challenges around the world
"Tonight, my message is simple. Thank you thank you thank you. And keep it up."
Mentioned a series of issues like climate change and others.
Said the Met has copies of poets like Seamus Heaney, his favorite poet.
Quoted from him. And then said:
" This is an age where we can once more make hope and history rhyme."
A couple of people spotted in the crowd:
Chef Jose Andres
Bill Gates
Check quotes against the transcript.
From the WH:
The President and the First Lady are hosting the United Nations General Assembly Leader's Reception at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, New York.
Greeting the President and the First Lady upon arrival at the Metropolitan Museum of Art:
Max Hollein, CEO and Director of the Metropolitan Museum of ArtNina Hollein, Spouse of Max Hollein



September 19, 202319:58

Travel Pool Report #15a — a bit more
From the WH.
Participating in a photo line with the President and First Lady:
Heads of Delegation in New York for the UN General Assembly and their Spouses



September 19, 202320:11

Travel Pool Report #16 — a bit more color
Thanks to my co-pooler Tracy Wilkinson
A room full of marble statues including a mid-19th century piece called Hiawatha and meant to represent "Native Perspectives". By Augustus saint-Gaudens.And another by George Grey Barnard called Struggle of the Two Natures of Man late 19th century.



September 19, 202320:58

Travel Pool Report #17 — departure from the Met
POTUS motorcade departed the Met at 8:56 pm eastern. Your pooler did not see POTUS.
We are heading to the RON.
more tk



September 19, 202321:13

Travel Pool Report #18 — arrival at RON / lid
POTUS motorcade arrived at the RON at 9:09 pm eastern
We have a lid.
Thanks to Tracy Wilkinson and the rest of my colleagues in the pool.
Have a good night everyone.




  