
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

One of the first aims of AMERICA 2000, our comprehensive strategy for achieving excellence in education, is ensuring that every child in the Nation starts school ready to learn. Because a hungry or undernourished child is less likely to be an eager and attentive student, the National School Lunch Program plays an important role in helping us to meet this goal.
Thanks to the National School Lunch Program, approximately 23 million students in 91,000 schools across the country are able to eat a wholesome, well-balanced lunch each day. Meals provided through the Program, which has been expanded to include the School Breakfast Program, help these children to develop the energy, stamina, and good health that they need to study and to learn.
The National School Lunch Program also continues to promote healthy eating habits among the youngsters who participate. Indeed, much has changed since their parents sat at the cafeteria table. As conventional wisdom regarding diet and nutrition has changed, so have school lunches. Students now have a much wider array of healthful and nutritious options than ever before.
The success of the National School Lunch Program has been made possible by many different people, including Federal, State, and local officials, as well as parents, educators, food service specialists, and students themselves. This week, we acknowledge the many dedicated professionals and volunteers who have contributed to the National School Lunch Program since its inception in 1946.
By joint resolution approved October 9, 1962 (Public Law 87 - 780), the Congress designated the week beginning on the second Sunday of October in each year as "National School Lunch Week" and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of that week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning October 13, 1991, as National School Lunch Week. I call upon all Americans to recognize those dedicated and hardworking individuals who contribute to the success of the School Lunch Program.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-one, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and sixteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  