
    James M. Andrew, of Georgia, to be Administrator, Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture, vice Hilda Gay Legg, resigned.
Thomas O. Barnett, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice R. Hewitt Pate.
Santanu K. Baruah, of Oregon, to be Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development, vice David A. Sampson.
Orlando J. Cabrera, of Florida, to be an Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, vice Michael Minoru Fawn Liu, resigned.
David B. Dunn, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Togolese Republic.
Delores M. Etter, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy, vice John J. Young.
Emilio T. Gonzalez, of Florida, to be Director of the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services, Department of Homeland Security, vice Eduardo Aguirre, Jr.
Lyons Gray, of North Carolina, to be Chief Financial Officer, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Charles Johnson.
James S. Halpern, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the United States Tax Court for a term of fifteen years. (Reappointment)
Jeffrey D. Jarrett, of Pennsylvania, to be an Assistant Secretary of Energy (Fossil Energy), vice Michael Smith, resigned.
Brenda LaGrange Johnson, of New York, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Jamaica.
Clay Lowery, of Virginia, to be a Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury, vice Randal Quarles.
John E. Maupin, Jr., of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Social Security Advisory Board for a term expiring September 30, 2010, vice Gerald M. Shea, term expired.
Mark McKinnon, of Texas, to be a Member of the Broadcasting Board of Governors for a term expiring August 13, 2008, vice Joaquin F. Blaya, term expired.
John M. Molino, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Policy and Planning), vice Claude M. Kicklighter, resigned.
Lisette M. Mondello, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Public and Intergovernmental Affairs), vice Cynthia R. Church, resigned.
George J. Opfer, of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of Veterans Affairs, vice Richard J. Griffin.
Ellen R. Sauerbrey, of Maryland, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Population, Refugees, and Migration), vice Arthur E. Dewey, resigned.
Jacqueline Ellen Schafer, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Emmy B. Simmons.
Thomas A. Shannon, Jr., of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Western Hemisphere Affairs), vice Roger Francisco Noriega.
Alexander R. Vershbow, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Korea.
Donald C. Winter, of Virginia, to be Secretary of the Navy, vice Gordon England.
Michael W. Wynne, of Florida, to be Secretary of the Air Force, vice James G. Roche.
  