
    To the Congress of the United States:
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)) provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless, prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the President publishes in the Federal Register and transmits to the Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect beyond the anniversary date. In accordance with this provision, I have sent the enclosed notice, stating that the Haitian emergency is to continue in effect beyond October 4, 1994, to the Federal Register for publication.
Resolution of the crisis between the United States and Haiti is in sight as a result of the September 18 agreement reached in Port-au-Prince by the delegation led by former President Carter. Pursuant to that agreement I have announced that all unilateral United States sanctions against Haiti will be suspended with the exception of the blocking of the assets of any persons subject to the blocking provisions of Executive Orders Nos. 12775, 12779, 12853, 12872, or 12914 and Haitian citizens who are members of the immediate family of any such person as identified by the Secretary of the Treasury.
At the same time, the United Nations Security Council, with our support, has decided that the sanctions established in Resolutions 841 and 917 should remain in force, consistent with the provisions of Resolutions 917 and 940, until the military leaders in Haiti relinquish power and President Aristide returns to Haiti. That may well not occur before October 4, 1994. Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to retain the authority to apply economic sanctions to ensure the restoration and security of the democratically elected Government of Haiti.
While the UN Security Council sanctions remain in force and in order to enable the multinational forces to carry out their mission and to promote the betterment of the Haitian people in the interval until President Aristide's return, I have directed that steps be taken in accordance with Resolutions 917 and 940 to permit supplies and services to flow to Haiti to restore health care, water and electrical services, to provide construction materials for humanitarian programs, and to allow the shipment of communications, agricultural, and educational materials. This will allow the Haitian people to begin the process of reconciliation and rebuilding without delay.
WILLIAM J. CLINTON
The White House, September 30, 1994.
  