
    First Vice Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and Assistant Democratic Whip announces support for Harris' presidential bid
Senator Kamala Harris picked up a major endorsement from Congressman Ruben Gallego of Arizona, a leader in the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and representative from a key battleground state in 2020. He will serve as the campaign's National Security chair.
His endorsement comes on the heels of Harris unveiling her plan to expand access to V.A. health care and housing assistance to over 500,000 more veterans.
Gallego has represented Arizona's 7th Congressional District since 2011 after serving six years in the United States Marine Corps and deploying to Iraq. He currently serves as the First Vice Chair of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus and the Assistant Whip for the Democratic Caucus. For his entire career in public service, Gallego has been a tireless advocate on veterans' issues, immigration reform, and health care.
"This urgent moment demands a bold, compassionate, and capable commander-in-chief -- and that's why we need to elect Kamala Harris as our next president," said Representative Gallego. "At a time when we are one tweet away from war, Kamala has demonstrated she has the tenacity, toughness, and judgment to restore American global leadership. Her bold plans to provide health care for all and citizenship for Dreamers shows that she'll be a problem solving president, and her track record of fighting for immigrants, consumers, veterans, and victims shows us that she truly does work for the people. Kamala is the definition of a public servant, and I know she's best equipped to serve as our next president."
"Ruben has been a champion for immigrants, veterans, and Arizonans for his entire career, and I'm honored to earn his endorsement," said Senator Harris. "From his service to our nation in Iraq to his work expanding Medicaid in Arizona to his leadership on immigration and veterans affairs in Congress, Ruben embodies the best of who we are as a nation. I look forward to working with him on the issues that are waking working people up in the middle of the night -- as well as turning Arizona blue in 2020."
Harris has earned the endorsement of the Iowa Asian and Latino Coalition and recently launched Spanish Camp Kamala--a first-of-its-kind program to train Spanish speaking volunteers to mobilize voters in Latinx communities.
  