
    [As prepared for delivery.]
When I announced, I said I was running for President because I believed the core values of our nation — our very democracy — were at risk.
Events in recent days have made that clearer than ever.
We have a President who believes there is no limit to his power.We have a President who believes he can do anything and get away with it. We have a President who believes he is above the law.
Pressuring the leader of another nation to investigate a political opponent — to help win his election is not the conduct of an American President.
The allegation that he blocked hundreds of millions of dollars in Congressionally approved aid to another country unless it agreed to smear his political opponent is not the conduct of an American President.
Denying Congress the information to which it is constitutionally entitled — and obstructing its efforts to investigate his actions — is not the conduct of an American president.
It's an abuse of power. It undermines our national security. It violates the oath of office. And it strikes at the heart of the sworn responsibility the President has to put the national interest before his personal interest.
I knew when I decided to run this President would attack me and my family. That's what he does.
And I know that even though every reputable publication that has looked at these charges has found them baseless, untrue, and without merit. It won't stop him. I can take the political attacks. They'll come and go and soon be forgotten.
But if we allow a President to get away with shredding the United States Constitution — that will last forever.
Too many people have taken an oath to this nation and given their lives over the past 243 years to let that happen. Too many people are serving this nation right now and honoring the oaths they have taken to let that happen.
This isn't a Democratic issue or a Republican issue. This is a national issue.
It's time for this administration to stop stonewalling and provide the Congress with all the facts it needs, including a copy of the formal complaint made by the Whistleblower.
And it's time for the Congress to fully investigate the conduct of this President.
The President should stop stonewalling this investigation and all the other investigations of his wrongdoing.
Using its full Constitutional authority, Congress should demand the information it has a legal right to receive.
And if the President does not comply — if he continues to obstruct Congress and flout the law — Donald Trump will leave Congress no choice but to initiate impeachment.
That would be a tragedy. But a tragedy of the president's own making.
I have always believed that America is a special nation.
Better than any nation in history. We have made the experiment in self-governance work.
We have always been a beacon to the world.
We know who Donald Trump is.
It's time to let the world know who we are.
  