
    Pool Reports by Tal Kopan, San Francisco Chronicle



Sent:
Reports:




 September 12, 2020 12:44

 In-town pool report 1: Gathered for departure 
Good afternoon on an overcast and downright fall-like day in Washington.
Pool is gathered in vans to motorcade the few blocks to the Trump Hotel, where the president has two fundraisers on the schedule before a motorcade straight from there to JBA.
Pool has had its COVID tests, as usual. 


 September 12, 2020 13:37

 In-town pool report 2: rolling 
The pool is rolling at 1:36 p.m. At approximately 1:24, pool saw Mark Meadows leave his vehicle, where he had been for some time, and trot toward the Oval Office, tap on the door and be let in.
At 1:35 p.m., the pool saw Meadows exit with Trump. They briefly finished their conversation then separated for their vehicles.
Fundraiser was on the daily schedule as beginning at 1:30.
Pool spotted Scott Atlas loading into the motorcade as well as a woman who at least very strongly resembled Kayleigh McEnany. 


 September 12, 2020

[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received by the APP.]


 September 12, 2020 16:01

 In-town pool report 4: departing hotel 
Motorcade left the hotel en route to JBA at 4 p.m. We did not see the president load back up.
As we were walking back to the vans, the dueling demonstrations were ongoing. Trump supporters welcomed us back, urged us to "tell the truth" and said:"We appreciate all you honest ones. ...You know who you are."
On the other side of the intersection, a man with a bullhorn chanted in favor of Trump, while a woman waved a black flag with a circle around Trump's name and a line going through it to protest against him. With the simultaneous chants, it was difficult to make out what either was saying, though something about making America "white again" was audible. Including a picture of that group. One of the van drivers told your pool that the scene had pretty much been continuing in that fashion the entire time we've been holding.


 September 12, 2020 16:24

 In-town pool report 5: JBA 
Motorcade pulled into JBA at 4:18 pm.
POTUS disembarked and walked straight up onto AF1.
Handing off to out of town pool. It's been a pleasure sharing my Saturday afternoon with your inbox. 




Pool Reports below by Gabriella Orr, POLITICO



Sent:
Reports:




 September 12, 2020 16:24

 Travel pool no. 1 – Departure 
Greetings from Joint Base Andrews, where it is cloudy and cool on this autumn-ish day.
POTUS arrived by motorcade at 4:22 p.m. He waved at the pool before boarding the plane. Accompanying him on the flight is RNC Chairwoman Ronna McDaniel, Kayleigh McEnany and Hope Hicks.
We were scheduled to depart for Reno, Nev. at 4:05 p.m. Upon arrival, we'll have a bit of a drive along the base of the Sierra Nevadas to get to the site of tonight's rally in Minden. The original location was scrapped due to crowd-size restrictions in Nevada that prohibit gatherings of more than 50 people.
In addition to events in Las Vegas and Mesa, Ariz., POTUS has added a stop in Sacramento on Monday for a briefing on the Northern California wildfires from local and federal emergency officials.
Wheels up shortly... 


 September 12, 2020 18:17

 Travel pool no. 2 — Arrival/Potus comments 
AF1 touched down at the Reno-Tahoe airport at 5:54 p.m. local. Flight was uneventful with no POTUS visit to the back, though the TVs did switch from Fox News to the Clemson vs. Wake Forest game midway through.
POTUS spoke to us briefly before we loaded in the vans. No questions.
He said the coronavirus pandemic is "rounding the corner" and a vaccine "will hopefully be out soon."
"We just landed in Nevada and we're very booked up. The venue is packed. 1,000 people — many times that."
"I've been here a lot in my life and I know it well. I think we're gonna win it."
More quotes:
"We're very close. I think we're up. I think we're up very substantially. Real polls show us doing very well in Florida, very well in North Carolina, Pennsylvania. We're doing really well in New Hampshire."
"Joe Biden is sleeping and whatever he's doing in his basement. He doesn't come out a lot."
Ronna McDaniel came back to say hello toward the end of the flight and to show the press cabin to a Florida donor who she appeared to be FaceTiming with. Your pooler also spotted Alyssa Farah, Jason Miller, Dan Scavino, Derek Lyons and Stephen Miller deplaning.
At 6:14 p.m. motorcade is rolling to the Minden-Tahoe airport approximately 45 mins away. 


 September 12, 2020 18:36

 Travel pool no. 2a — Correction 
Your pooler mistook "donor" for "voter" when Ronna McDaniel came back to the press cabin. She was FaceTiming her mom, a "Florida voter" as she put it.
It was difficult to hear and your pooler apologizes for the error. 


 September 12, 2020 19:24

 Travel pool no. 3 – Arrival at rally 
Motorcade pulled into the Minden-Tahoe at 7:10 p.m. local after a long trip through Reno and Carson City.
Almost the entire route was lined with bystanders standing on top of cars, flying American flags and Trump 2020 signs from the beds of pickup trucks, waving from overpasses and giving thumbs up to the motorcade as we passed by.
Turnout at the rally is in the low thousands. It is a cool 66º here with a beautiful sunset over the mountains behind us. The rally will be carried live at the link below, but your pooler will send along color as needed.
https://www.c-span.org/video/?475541-1/president-trump-holds-campaign-ra...


 September 12, 2020 21:10

 Travel pool no. 4 – Leaving Minden 
POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 8:55 p.m. local, after speaking for nearly an hour and 30 minutes. He then spent several minutes waving to the crowd and clapping as the song YMCA played on loud speakers.
It was a raucous crowd here tonight with zero social distancing and very few folks in the audience swearing masks.
At 9:08 p.m. the motorcade is rolling back to the Reno-Tahoe airport. From there, we're off to Vegas. 


 September 12, 2020 23:55

 Travel pool no. 5 — Vegas arrival 
AF1 touched down in Las Vegas at 11:24 p.m. local. POTUS
Motorcade left the airport at 11:30 p.m. and drove down the strip to the RON. There were quite a few people still out and about, including a pair of Vegas showgirls who waved at the motorcade as we drove by.
Pool split off after dropping POTUS at the Trump International Hotel just off the main strip.
A travel/photo lid was called at 11:55 p.m. Have a good night everyone. 


 September 13, 2020 1:17

 Travel pool no. 5 — Off to Vegas 
Motorcade arrived back at the Reno-Tahoe airport at 10:06 p.m. local. Lots of folks were still out along the roads to snap photos and wave hello as we passed by.
We are wheels up for Las Vegas at 10:15 p.m. 



  