
    President Trump has been honest and transparent from day one.
President Donald Trump added more names to his list of potential nominees for the U.S. Supreme Court last week. The list features accomplished, highly respected individuals from many backgrounds who are committed to upholding the rule of law and our Constitution.
During the 2016 campaign, President Trump made a commitment to only appoint judges who respect the right to life and the Second Amendment, and released a list of specific people in order to be transparent with the American people. With the appointments of Supreme Court Justices Neil Gorsuch and Brett Kavanaugh, the president kept his promise to choose from his list. And since taking office, he has appointed more than 200 federal judges—an historic accomplishment that will ensure that, for many years to come, the federal judiciary does a better job of faithfully interpreting the law, not twisting it to fit the far-left's political agenda.
The 2020 election is incredibly important, because over the next four years the president will have the opportunity to fill several more seats on the Supreme Court and further shape the federal judiciary. Voters deserve to know who Joe Biden would pick to fill those positions. So where is Biden's list of potential nominees?
Biden almost certainly has people in mind but is unwilling to name them publicly. Biden has said his litmus test for judicial nominees is support for unlimited abortion and "a view of the Constitution as a living document" – in other words, left-wing activists who will legislate from the bench. And as a radical, pro-abortion extremist, Kamala Harris will oppose Catholic nominees and has said she is open to packing the Supreme Court by adding four seats for liberal activists.
Make no mistake: Joe Biden is no moderate. He opposed every Supreme Court nominee put forward by a Republican president since the 1990s, including Clarence Thomas, John Roberts, Samuel Alito, Neil Gorsuch, and Brett Kavanaugh. If given the chance, Biden's far-left handlers will ensure the courts are overtaken by fringe, liberal activists who insist on legislating from the bench and undermining the Constitution.
The American people know where President Trump stands. Now it's time for Joe Biden to release a list of his own potential Supreme Court nominees.
  