
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate five individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Dr. Zalmay Khalilzad, of Maryland, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Afghanistan. Dr. Khalilzad currently serves as Special Presidential Envoy to Afghanistan, a role he will retain after he is confirmed as Ambassador. Dr. Khalilzad previously served as Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Islamic Outreach and Southwest Asia Initiatives at the National Security Council, and prior to that Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Southwest Asia, Near East, and North African Affairs, National Security Council. He also has been a Special Presidential Envoy to the Free Iraqis. Between 1993 and 1999, Dr. Khalilzad was Director of the Strategy, Doctrine and Force Structure program for RAND's Project Air Force. Between 1991 and 1992, Dr. Khalilzad served as Assistant Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy Planning. He also served as a senior political scientist at RAND and an associate professor at the University of California at San Diego in 1989 and 1991. From 1985 to 1989 at the Department of State, Dr. Khalilzad served as Special Advisor to the Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs working policy issues, advising on the Iran-Iraq War and the Soviet War in Afghanistan. From 1979 to 1986, Dr. Khalilzad was an Assistant Professor of Political Science at Columbia University. Dr. Khalilzad received his bachelor's and master's degree from The American University of Beirut, Lebanon. He went on to earn a Ph.D. from the University of Chicago.
The President intends to nominate Raymond Simon, of Arkansas, to be Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education. Mr. Simon currently serves as Director of Education at the Arkansas Department of Education. He previously served as Assistant Superintendent for Finance and the Superintendent for Conway Public Schools, in Conway, Arkansas. Mr. Simon is a graduate of the University of Central Arkansas, where he went on to earn a master's degree.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for National and Community Service:
The President intends to nominate Cynthia Boich, of California, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring October 6, 2007.
The President intends to nominate Dorothy A. Johnson, of Michigan, for the remainder of a five-year term expiring October 6, 2007.
The President intends to nominate Henry Lozano, of California, for a five year term expiring October 6, 2008.
  