
    Booker tops all 2020 candidates in endorsements from New Hampshire elected officials, key activists and community leaders
Manchester, NH — One day before taking the stage at the New Hampshire Convention, Cory Booker earned 27 new endorsements from elected officials, key activists and community leaders, including New Hampshire Representatives Patricia Klee (Nashua), Kate Murray (New Castle) and Cecilia Rich (Somersworth).
The endorsements today from Reps. Klee, Murray and Rich — as well as 24 delegates, activists and community leaders — bring Booker's total to 80. Booker leads all 2020 candidates in New Hampshire endorsements.
"I've met many of the candidates in this field, but Cory Booker stands out," said NH Rep. Patricia Klee (Nashua). "Cory has a history of fighting and winning tough races, and has taken on people like Donald Trump before. He also knows that this race isn't just about beating Trump, but advocating for policies that help families in Nashua and across the state. We would be lucky to have such a fighter as President of the United States."
"My first encounter with Cory Booker was over a decade ago, but the powerful impression he left with me has not faded," said NH Rep. Kate Murray (New Castle). "I saw a person of vision and integrity; someone who can captivate a room full of people with his message and someone who can have a meaningful conversation on a very personal level. More than any of the other candidates, he has the qualities I am most looking for in a president: someone who can bring diverse people together, meaningfully address our most pressing issues, and inspire us to envision and create a country of justice and opportunity."
"Cory Booker knows beating Donald Trump is the floor, not the ceiling, of what is possible for our country," said NH Representative Cecilia Rich (Somersworth). "He has proposed ambitious policies on issues from health care to gun violence prevention to environmental justice that will improve the lives of millions here in New Hampshire and across the country. Cory is a true fighter and I am excited to support him in this race."
In addition to the three state representatives, here is the list of delegates, activists and community leaders endorsing Booker today:

Michael Behrendt (Durham), climate activist
Jay Buckley, Plymouth small business owner
Diane Cox, Salem activist
Rev. Deborah Davis (Dover), delegate to the New Hampshire Convention 
William Davis (Dover), delegate to the New Hampshire Convention
Paul Drager, former chair of Somersworth Democrats
Grace Gato, Hudson activist
William Gleed, Derry activist and educator
Nancy Hammond, Portsmouth activist
Caleb John Hand, Londonderry activist
Ceci Haynsworth, Exeter activist
Eve Kornhauser (Durham), climate activist
Naomi Kornhauser (Durham), climate activist
Sarah Lambert Derian, Manchester activist and educator
Christine Miller, Penacook activist
David Mirsky, Exeter activist
The Rev. Teresa Payne Cocha (Plymouth), minister and faith leader
Joanne Petito, Exeter activist
Elizabeth Radecic, Hooksett activist and educator
Bertha Robbins, Somersworth activist
Dr. Barrett Rock (Durham), climate activist and scientist
Bertha Trently, Stratham activist
Greg Walsh, Concord activist
Audrey Woollacott (Nashua), delegate to the New Hampshire Convention and Nashua Democratic City Committee Ward 6 Treasurer

Elected officials, activists and community leaders who have previously endorsed Booker are:

Sen. Jon Morgan (Brentwood)
Sen. David Watters (Dover)
Concord Mayor Jim Bouley
Rep. Anita Burroughs (Bartlett)
Rep. Peter Leishman (Peterborough)
Rep. Linn Opderbecke (Dover)
Rep. Lee Walker Oxenham (Plainfield)
Rep. Katherine Rogers (Concord)
Rep. Jeffrey Salloway (Lee)
Rep. Bruce Tatro (Swanzey)
Rep. Don Bouchard (Manchester)
Concord Activist Jim Demers; and
An additional 41 New Hampshire activists, delegates and community leaders, announced in July.

These endorsements come ahead of Booker's seventh trip to the Granite State, where he will speak at the New Hampshire Convention, hold events in Goffstown, Manchester and Nashua and stop by the Indonesian Festival in Somersworth. Since launching his presidential campaign, Booker has visited all ten counties, held 45 public events and met 6,000 voters in New Hampshire.
  