
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

From the time the first explorers and settlers set foot on this land, the abundant products of America's forests have been regarded as a major resource. Today they still provide a significant portion of our materials for construction, furniture and other important industries and create millions of jobs.
Unlike many of our precious natural resources, our forest products can be replenished. The need to make optimum use of these important resources must be balanced with vital environmental concerns, so that we make the best possible use of our forest lands, preserving the irreplaceable, conserving the beauty and ecological balance while providing important raw materials for our Nation's economic well-being. Small, private non-industrial interests own 59 per cent of our commercial forest land. We encourage them to make wise use of this land. As a Nation we must all work together to prevent and control pollution, fires, insects and diseases that damage our forests, while striving to maintain and improve fish and wildlife habitats.
In recognition of the importance of America's forest resources and in the contributions of the forest products industry to our Nation's growth, the Congress has, by joint resolution of September 13, 1960 (74 Stat. 898), designated the week beginning the third Sunday of October in each year as National Forest Products Week and has requested the President to issue an annual proclamation calling for its observance.
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter, President of the United States of America, do hereby call upon the people of the United States to observe the week beginning October 16, 1977, as National Forest Products Week, with activities and ceremonies designed to direct public attention to, and demonstrate our gratitude for, the forest resources with which we are blessed.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and seventy-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and second.

JIMMY CARTER
  