
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today that former advisors to former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher Robert Conquest and Dr. Nile Gardiner are supporting Mayor Giuliani for President. Conquest will serve as a member of the Senior Foreign Policy Advisory Board and Gardiner, the Director of the Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom at the Heritage Foundation, will serve as a member of the European Advisory Board. They join the campaign's foreign policy team as the Mayor meets with former Prime Minister Thatcher, as well as former Prime Minister Tony Blair and current Prime Minister Gordon Brown, in London, England, where he will deliver the inaugural Margaret Thatcher Atlantic Bridge lecture.
"I support Mr. Giuliani because I see his approach to our international challenges as serious, careful and responsible," said Conquest.
"Mayor Giuliani is a proven leader with a clear vision for keeping America safe and offers the kind of strong leadership that the United States needs to win the Terrorists' War on Us," said Gardiner. "In my time working with former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, I observed how her strong principles governed her decision making. Rudy Giuliani is a leader in her mold."
The other new addition to the Mayor's foreign policy team is National Review Senior Editor David Pryce-Jones, who joins as a Senior Foreign Policy Advisor.
"Mayor Giuliani is someone who sets an example of leadership which I find impressive. He clearly understands the dangers we are facing today," said Pryce-Jones.
Mayor Giuliani's foreign policy team advises the Mayor on a foreign policy vision that advances the United States as a world leader: expanding America's involvement in the global economy, strengthening our reputation around the world, and keeping our country on offense in the Terrorists' War on Us.
More About The Additions To Mayor Giuliani's Foreign Policy Advisory Board:
Robert Conquest, Senior Foreign Policy Advisory Board Member
Conquest, the recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, is a dual national by birth and renowned historian of Russia. He has served with military and diplomatic missions in Russian-occupied Eastern Europe and the United Nations. He advised former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, who wrote, "When the history of the West's victory in the Cold War comes to be written a special place will go to Robert Conquest." Conquest is a Companion of the Order of St. Michael and St. George. His account of the Stalin years, The Great Terror, is soon to be published in an updated 3rd edition.
Nile Gardiner, Ph.D., European Advisory Board Member
Gardiner serves as the Director of the Margaret Thatcher Center for Freedom at the Heritage Foundation. Prior to joining the Heritage Foundation, Gardiner was Foreign Policy Researcher for former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher. Gardiner specializes in Anglo-U.S. relationship, the United Nations, post-war Iraq, and the role of Great Britain and Europe in the U.S.-led alliance against international terrorism and 'rogue states' including Iran. He is a leading authority on transatlantic relations.
Gardiner is a sought-after advisor from issues such as the role of international allies in post-war Iraq to U.S.-British leadership in the war on terror, has testified several times before Congress and has made over 400 television appearances discussing foreign policy issues and written for leading publications including The Wall Street Journal, The Boston Globe, The London Daily Telegraph and National Review. Gardiner served as an expert on the 2005 Gingrich-Mitchell Congressional Task Force on the United Nations.
Gardiner assisted Lady Thatcher with her latest book, Statecraft: Strategies for a Changing World. He served as an aide to Lady Thatcher from 2000 to 2002 and advised her on a number of international policy issues.
Gardiner received his Ph.D. in History from Yale University, where he was awarded the International Security Studies Smith Richardson Foundation Fellowship and the David Gimbel Fellowship. He holds two Masters degrees from Yale and a BA and MA in Modern History from Oxford University. He has a broad range of international experience, and has lived in four continents: Europe, Africa, Asia and North America.
David Pryce-Jones, Senior Foreign Policy Advisor
Pryce-Jones studied at Magdalen College, Oxford. He is the author of ten novels and eleven non-fiction books, including The Closed Circle, a social and political interpretation of Arab society, and The Strange Death of the Soviet Union. Earlier this year, he published Betrayal: France, the Arabs and the Jews. Since 1999, he has been a Senior Editor of National Review in New York. Pryce-Jones' essays and articles have also appeared in Commentary, New Criterion, The Wall Street Journal, The Spectator and Sunday Telegraph among numerous other publications.
*Title and affiliations of each individual listed for identification purposes only.
  