
    By virtue of the authority vested in me by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.), hereinafter referred to as the Act, and section 301 of title 3 of the United States Code, and as President of the United States, it is ordered as follows:
SECTION 1. Whenever the President, pursuant to section 123 of the Act, has approved and authorized the execution of a proposed agreement providing for cooperation pursuant to section 91c, 144a, 144b, or 144c of the Act (42 U.S.C. 2121(c), 2164(a), 2164(b), 2164(c)), such approval and authorization by the President shall constitute his authorization to cooperate to the extent provided for in the agreement and in the manner provided for in section 91c, 144a, 144b, or 144c, as pertinent. In respect of sections 91c, 144b, and 144c, authorizations by the President to cooperate shall be subject to the requirements of section 123d of the Act and shall also be subject to appropriate determinations made pursuant to section 2 of this order.
SEC. 2. (a) The Secretary of Defense and the Atomic Energy Commission are hereby designated and empowered to exercise jointly, after consultation with executive agencies as may be appropriate, the following-described authority without the approval, ratification, or other action of the President:
(1) The authority vested in the President by section 91c of the Act to determine that the proposed cooperation and each proposed transfer arrangement referred to in that section will promote and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security.
(2) The authority vested in the President by section 144b of the Act to determine that the proposed cooperation and the proposed communication of Restricted Data referred to in that section will promote and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security.
(3) The authority vested in the President by section 144c of the Act to determine that the proposed cooperation and the communication of the proposed Restricted Data referred to in that section will promote and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to the common defense and security.
(b) Whenever the Secretary of Defense and the Atomic Energy Commission are unable to agree upon a joint determination under the provisions of subsection (a) of this section, the recommendations of each of them, together with the recommendations of other agencies concerned, shall be referred to the President, and the determination shall be made by the President.
SEC. 3. This order shall not be construed as delegating the function vested in the President by section 91c of the Act of approving programs proposed under that section.
SEC. 4. (a) The functions of negotiating and entering into international agreements under the Act shall be performed by or under the authority of the Secretary of State.
(b) International cooperation under the Act shall be subject to the responsibilities of the Secretary of State with respect to the foreign policy of the United States pertinent thereto.
DWIGHT D. EISENHOWER
THE WHITE HOUSE,
September 30, 1959.
  