
    NOMINATIONS SENT TO THE SENATE:
Michael P. Botticelli, of the District of Columbia, to be Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice R. Gil Kerlikowske, resigned.
Seth B. Carpenter, of the District of Columbia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury, vice Matthew S. Rutherford.
Gilberto de Jesus, of Maryland, to be Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, vice Winslow Lorenzo Sargeant.
Russell C. Deyo, of New Jersey, to be Under Secretary for Management, Department of Homeland Security, vice Rafael Borras, resigned.
Sheila Gwaltney, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kyrgyz Republic.
Jennifer Ann Haverkamp, of Indiana, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice Kerri-Ann Jones, resigned.
Todd A. Fisher, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2016, vice James A. Torrey, term expired.
Colette Dodson Honorable, of Arkansas, to be a Member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission for the remainder of the term expiring June 30, 2017, vice John Robert Norris, resigned.
Virginia Tyler Lodge, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2019, vice William B. Sansom, term expired.
Daniel Henry Marti, of Virginia, to be Intellectual Property Enforcement Coordinator, Executive Office of the President, vice Victoria Angelica Espinel, resigned.
Peter Michael McKinley, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan.
Carlos A. Monje, Jr., of Louisiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of Transportation, vice Polly Trottenberg, resigned.
Deven J. Parekh, of New York, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation for a term expiring December 17, 2016, vice Katherine M. Gehl, resigned.
Ronald Alan Pearlman, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Internal Revenue Service Oversight Board for a term expiring September 14, 2015, vice Nancy Killefer, term expired.
Nancy Bikoff Pettit, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia.
Sarah R. Saldaña, of Texas, to be an Assistant Secretary of Homeland Security, vice John Morton, resigned.
Carlos J. Torres, of Virginia, to be Deputy Director of the Peace Corps, vice Carolyn Hessler Radelet, resigned.
Ronald Anderson Walter, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority for a term expiring May 18, 2019, vice Barbara Short Haskew, term expired.
WITHDRAWAL SENT TO THE SENATE:
Annette Taddeo-Goldstein, of Florida, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Inter-American Foundation for a term expiring September 20, 2018, vice John P. Salazar, term expired, which was sent to the Senate on February 27, 2014.
  