
    He is making the economy great again!
As President Trump peacefully protests with supporters in Swanton tonight, the evidence shows his whole-of-government response to the coronavirus helped Ohio families and workers:

President Trump fought to give the people of Ohio the resources and help they need to combat the coronavirus.
President Trump's Paycheck Protection Program protected 1.9 million Ohio jobs by providing over $18.5 billion worth of loans to more than 149,000 Ohio businesses.
More than 6.1 million Ohioans received Economic Impact Payments totaling over $10.2 billion in relief.
The CARES Act is providing $4.5 billion worth of aid to the state of Ohio and more than $989 million to 10,166 health care providers in the state.

Ohio businesses are poised for a historic comeback thanks to President Trump's economic leadership: 

President Trump's pro-growth policies, tax cuts, and deregulation built a stronger economy for Ohio workers and businesses.
In the last 4 months, Ohio added back 443,200 jobs following the economy's artificial interruption from the China virus.
Ohio added more than 82,000 new jobs in the first three years of the Trump Administration, including 13,400 new manufacturing jobs.
In February, Ohio's unemployment rate fell to just 4.1%. During the Obama-Biden Administration, the average unemployment rate in Ohio was 7.5%.
President Trump's historic Tax Cuts & Jobs Act is projected to add over 45,700 new Ohio jobs over the next decade. The law also designated 320 Ohio communities as Opportunity Zones, which will drive new private investment into distressed and predominantly minority communities.

President Trump kept his promise to negotiate America First trade deals, providing a massive boost to Ohio's economy:

The President's United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) trade deal will boost Ohio's economy and create new jobs in the state, which exports $27.9 billion annually in goods to Canada and Mexico.
Trade with Canada and Mexico supports 428,400 jobs in Ohio.
President Trump is defending Ohio farmers and agriculture producers from China by providing more than $524 million in direct USDA payments to Ohio farmers.

But Joe Biden's radical, far-left agenda will decimate Ohio workers and families:

The terrible trade deals that Biden supported during his 44 years as a career politician in Washington killed Ohio jobs.

Ohio lost 34,900 jobs due to higher trade deficits with Mexico under NAFTA, which Biden supported.
Ohio lost 304,700 manufacturing jobs between when NAFTA took effect in 1994 and when President Trump was elected.
Biden voted to normalized trade relations with China, which killed 121,400 Ohio jobs due to higher trade deficits.


Biden's radical energy policies and promise to "end fossil fuel" would devastate Ohio workers and businesses.

The oil, gas, and coal industries support more than 262,000 Ohio jobs and contribute nearly $40 billion to the state's economy annually.
Nearly 73% of Ohio's homes are heated by natural gas, fuel oil, or propane, fuels that Biden wants to eliminate.
Biden has promised to eliminate fracking, which would devastate Ohio by killing 700,000 jobs and costing the state's economy $245 billion.


Biden's plan endangers the private health insurance that 6.4 million Ohioans rely on.

Biden's government-run public option plan would ultimately kill private health insurance plans.
Under Biden's government-run public option plan, 42% of Ohio's rural hospitals would be at "high risk" of closing, limiting patients' access to health care.


Biden pledged that charter schools will be "gone" if he is elected president. More than 113,000 students are enrolled in over 340 charter schools across Ohio.

  