
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

We have become increasingly aware in recent decades that our sources of energy are finite. America's economy continues to expand, generating new jobs, increased production, and an even higher demand for energy. At the same time, the changing needs of our people and the fragile nature of our environment teach us that we must use our resources wisely. The long-term health of our Nation and of our world require that we continually reexamine the ways we produce and consume energy.
As we celebrate Energy Awareness Month this year, the United States is leading the world in that effort, improving energy efficiency and exploring the possibilities of renewable resources. Through programs developed by both business and government, Americans are using energy in wiser and less costly ways. High technology applied to vehicles, appliances, and buildings has enabled us to save money, become less reliant on foreign imports, and protect our planet's precious natural resources. Yet much remains to be done.
The "Greening of the White House" initiative sets an important example. A cooperative project combining the best efforts of the public and private sectors, it utilizes the latest technologies in lighting, heating, air conditioning, cooking, and refrigeration and serves as a model of progress for buildings across the country. This project will be a challenge to countries around the globe to protect the Earth's environment and to achieve sustainable economic growth.
The theme of Energy Awareness Month, 1994, "Energy—Our Future Is Today!" recognizes that we must view our energy consumption from the perspective of the generations to come. I encourage all Americans to join in this crucial mission to conserve Earth's resources for our children and grandchildren by participating in activities that further our understanding and appreciation of the energy issues we face. Our work today will help to safeguard the strength of our economy, the well-being of our citizens, and the unique beauty of our world.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim October 1994 as "Energy Awareness Month."
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  