
    President Bush to Nominate 25 Individuals and Designate One to Serve in His Administration
President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate 25 individuals and his intention to designate one individual to serve in his administration.
The President intends to nominate Dale Cabaniss to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority for a five-year term expiring July 29, 2007, and upon confirmation, designate as Chairman. Cabaniss has served as a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority since 1997.
The President intends to nominate Scott W. Muller to be General Counsel of the Central Intelligence Agency. Muller is presently a Managing Partner of Davis, Polk and Wardwell in Washington, D.C. From 1978 to 1982, he was an Assistant United States Attorney in the Criminal Division of the Southern District of New York. Muller is a graduate of Princeton University and Georgetown University Law Center.
The President intends to nominate Grover Joseph Rees to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of East Timor. Rees has served as the Counsel to the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on International Relations since February 2001. From 1995 to 2001, he served as Staff Director and Chief Counsel for the Subcommittee on International Operations and Human Rights. Rees served as the General Counsel to the Immigration and Naturalization Service from 1991 to 1993. From 1986 to 1991, he was an Associate Justice and then Chief Justice of the High Court of American Samoa, and an Assistant Professor of Law at the University of Texas Law School from 1979 to 1986. Rees is a graduate of Yale University and Louisiana State University Law School.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Members of the Board of Directors of the National Consumer Cooperative Bank:
Rafael Cuellar of New Jersey, for a three-year term, to serve as the Proprietor of Small Business RepresentativeMichael Scott of North Carolina, for a three-year term, to serve as the U.S. Department Officer Representative
The President intends to nominate Harold Damelin to be Inspector General of the Small Business Administration. Damelin is currently a partner with Powers, Pyles, Sutter and Verville. From 1995 to 1997, he served with the U.S. Senate, first as Staff Director and Chief Counsel to the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, and then as Senior Counsel to the Majority for the Government Affairs Committee's Special Investigations. Damelin has also practiced law with Cadwalader, Wickersham and Taft, and Arent, Fox, Kitner, Plotkin and Kahn in Washington, D.C. From 1982 to 1986, he was the Deputy Chief of the Grand Jury Section of the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia, and he served as an Assistant U.S. Attorney from 1978 to 1991. Damelin has also served at the Department of Justice in Criminal Division. He received both his bachelor's degree and law degree from Boston College.
The President intends to nominate Linda M. Springer to be Controller of the Office of Federal Financial Management in the Office of Management and Budget. Springer been with Provident Mutual since 1992, first as an Actuary, Assistant Vice President, Vice President and Controller and then as Senior Vice President and Controller. From 1979 to 1992, she was with Penn Mutual Life Insurance as an Actuary, Assistant Vice President and Vice President and Product Manager. Springer is a graduate of Ursinus College.
The President intends to nominate John F. Keane to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Paraguay. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, he has served as the Director of Central American Affairs, and for seven months was the acting Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs. Keane served as Deputy Chief of Mission in Caracas from 1995 to 1998 and in Guatemala from 1992 to 1995. His past overseas assignments include service as a Political Officer in Brasilia and Santiago and Labor Officer in Buenos Aires and Lima. He is a graduate of Dartmouth University.
The President intends to nominate Philip Hogen to be Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission for a three-year term. Hogen is currently the Associate Solicitor for Indian Affairs at the Department of the Interior. He served as a member of the National Indian Gaming Commission from 1995 to 1999, and from 1992 to 1993, he was the Director of the Office of American Indian Trust at the Department of Interior. From 1981 to 1991, he was the United States Attorney for the District of South Dakota. Hogen is a graduate of Augustana College and the University of South Dakota School of Law.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Commissioners of the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada:
Allen Olsen of Minnesota Irene Brooks of Pennsylvania
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Members of the National Museum Services Board:
For the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 6, 2002 and an additional five-year term expiring December 6, 2007:
Judith Ann Rapanos of Michigan, and upon confirmation, designate Chairperson Edwin Joseph Rigaud of Ohio Margaret Scarlett of Wyoming
For the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 6, 2006:
Thomas E. Lorentzen of California Peter Marzio of Texas
For the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 6, 2005:
Nancy S. Dwight of New HampshireMaria Mercedes Guillemard of Puerto RicoPeter Hero of CaliforniaTerry L. Maple of Georgia
For the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 6, 2004:
David Donath of VermontA. Wilson Greene of VirginiaElizabeth J. Pruet of Arkansas
For the remainder of a five-year term expiring December 6, 2003:
Harry Robinson, Jr. of TexasBeth Walkup of Arizona
  