
    Pool Reports below by Kate Bennett, CNN



Sent:
Reports:




 September 17, 2020 10:38

Pool Report #1: 2/ FLOTUS to NH - rolling to JBA
The motorcade departed the White House at 10:35. Your pooler did not get a visual on FLOTUS from our location in the press van. 


September 17, 202011:14

#2/ FLOTUS to NH - wheels up
Flotus boarded executive one foxtrot at approximately 11:02, after an uneventful motorcade. She is wearing a brown jacket and slacks today, with high heels.
Mrs. Trump came back in the plane to say hello to ONDCP director Jim Carroll before heading to her private seating area.
At 11:11, we are taxiing, about to be wheels up.
Should be about an hour and fifteen minutes to New Hampshire.


September 17, 202012:29

#3/ FLOTUS to NH, landed 
FLOTUS plane landed at 12:20 at Manchester-Boston Airport after a relatively smooth hour-ish long flight.
On the ground we were joined by 4 local press, one of whom is shooting stills for AP. Your pooler should note there was no still photographer From WH press on this FLOTUS trip - a first for this pooler. Numbers are being kept small due to Covid precautions and because the event is taking place at a hospital, a White House official tells me.
We are shortly en route to Concord Hospital.


 September 17, 2020 12:53

#4/ FLOTUS to NH, info on visit 
?As we motorcade to the hospital visit, passing along below information on attendees at the hospital Simulation Center tour and roundtable, embargoed until it occurs, provided by the first lady's office. Additionally, adding her remarks, also embargoed until delivery.
The Simulation Center features several "stations" consisting of activities and/or treatments aimed at helping provide comfort and care to babies born with NAS (neonatal abstinent syndrome), a White House official tells the press pool. The official adds the first lady will meet with a family who has already completed the NAS program. She will also meet one of the "cuddle volunteers," whose job it is to hold and soothe the babies.
(*Your pooler also wanted to note the first lady was not wearing a mask as she disembarked her plane, however, all staff members were wearing masks, as were all USSS agents and press.)
EVENT PARTICIPANTS – EMBARGOED UNTIL THE START OF THE ROUNDTABLE Simulation Center Event: Clinical session-110pm (12 mins)



Participant Name 
Title/Role



Erin Collins, BSN, RN
Administrative Director of the Family Place/VP of Nursing


Angela Wilson
Family Place Social Worker


Annie Roy, RN
Special Care Nursery Nurse


Angela Yerdon-McLeod, MD
Family Medicine Provider


Melissa Devine, RN
Family Place Nurse Manager



 Rotunda Event: Roundtable Discussion—145pm 



Participant Name 
Title/Role


Robert Steigmeyer
President and CEO


Erin Collins, BSN, RN
Administrative Director of the Family Place/VP of Nursing


Angela Yerdon-McLeod, MD
Family Medicine Provider


Marcia HennellyMoran, Esq.
Board of Trustee Member, Dobles Grant



 The First Lady's Remarks – EMBARGOED UNTIL DELIVERY
Thank you, Bob. The dedication of you and your staff to helping the people of Concord is an inspiration to us all.
It's an honor to be back in New Hampshire today, surrounded by the people and spirit that make this state so special. I am excited to listen and learn about the programs that Concord Hospital has to offer to newborns born with neonatal abstinence syndrome.
I would also like to thank our Office of National Drug Control Policy and Director Jim Carroll for their help in making this important event possible.
September is National Recovery Month, a time to celebrate those who have embraced sobriety and the positive impact of a drug-free life. Today, I would like to highlight the people and programs that encourage and support the road to recovery for mothers and their innocent newborns.
Each year, tens of thousands of babies are born suffering from neonatal abstinence syndrome in the United States — every 15 minutes, another child is born with NAS, dependent on opioids, and facing a fragile future without medical help.
Sadly, this is something that the doctors and nurses at Concord Hospital have to face on a regular basis. Every day they work to give these newborns a fighting chance but they provide more than medical care; they give these innocent babies and their families the gift of hope and love.
Earlier in my visit today, I learned about the volunteer "cuddlers" who dedicate their time to comforting these vulnerable babies as they recover. These volunteers are a shining example of the kind spirit found within this community and hospital.
In my time as First Lady, I have traveled to hospitals and rehabilitation centers around the country and have seen the devastating results of drug abuse and addiction.
I have learned that addiction and drug abuse are universal issues that do not discriminate based on income, age, race, or where you live.
What has struck me with each visit is how this epidemic has touched such a large number of Americans. Many people know a friend, a family member, or a loved one with an opioid addiction. Sadly, as we see today, there are also pregnant mothers who are struggling to escape the grip of addiction, as well as innocent newborn babies impacted by drug exposure.
While I have seen the sadness of addiction, I have also seen the power communities have when they come together. Much like what is seen at this hospital.
This is why I made combatting opioid abuse one of the three pillars of my Be Best initiative. Be Best encourages the creation of a safer, healthier, and more hopeful world for our children.
And thanks to my husband and this Administration, we are doing exactly that.
Just last month, the Department of Health and Human Services released $1.5 billion to states and Tribes to combat the opioid crisis.
Under this administrations leadership, we have also supported the bipartisan SUPPORT Act which was the largest piece of legislation dedicated to combating the drug crisis to ever pass.
It is these steps at a federal level combined with the community support and work of Concord Hospital and hospitals across the country that will help us overcome our Nation's drug crisis.
I want to thank you all again for having me here today.
May god bless you and your families and may God Bless the United States of America.
I would now like to introduce my friend and colleague, Director Jim Carroll.


September 17, 202013:20

#5/ FLOTUS to NH, arrival at hospital
Flotus arrived to the hospital at 1:10, greeted indoors by an administrator.
Should note FLOTUS is now wearing a mask.
After hearing a brief outline of what she will be seeing, FLOTUS said, "I'm looking forward to it, thank you so much."
Her first stop is one of the clinician rooms where a small babydoll is in a medical crib. Four staff members are telling FLOTUS about the various treatments they use for NAS babies. FLOTUS is listening, along with ONDCP Director Carroll.
Press was ushered out after two of the four staff had done their presentations. We are now holding until the round table. The meeting with the family and the volunteer cuddler are closed press.
Attaching a phone pic:


 September 17, 2020 13:29

#6/ FLOTUS to NH, masks and testing 
?A staff member from the first lady's office has told the pool that in addition to mandated masks at the hospital, everyone who is in close proximity to FLOTUS today during the visit was previously tested for Covid 19 prior to her arrival.
This includes the administrators, clinicians, the family she is meeting and all the roundtable participants. 


 September 17, 2020 14:05

#7/ FLOTUS to NH, gifts 
?A White House official tells the pool FLOTUS has gifted the hospital's Special Care Unit Nursery with 20 fleece Be Best baby blankets, to be used for future babies. There are no babies at this time in the nursery, which a hospital administrator tells the pool is very unusual, but "good news." FLOTUS did not visit the nursery due to Covid restrictions, says the official.
Provided photo from WH of the blankets - attached.
[INSERT PHOTO 1 HERE]


September 17, 202014:33

#8/ FLOTUS to NH, roundtable starts
FLOTUS delivered her prepared remarks for approximately four minutes, speaking through her mask. She noted the "shining example of the kind spirit" of the community at this hospital, and added she has learned during her tenure visiting recovery and treatment programs that "drug addiction does not discriminate." She also talked about the issue of NAS, and the importance of helping mothers and babies.
When she was finished, she turned the floor over to Director Carroll for his remarks. There are five other roundtable participants.
Pics of FLOTUS speaking with her mask on:
[INSERT PHOTO 1 HERE]
[INSERT PHOTO 2 HERE]


 September 17, 2020 14:58

#9/ FLOTUS to NH, pool ushered out 
The pool was ushered out of the roundtable event as the last speaker, Erin Collins, a hospital administrator and the VP of Nursing, was giving her remarks. We were also led out before a planned Q&A session and thus do not know what questions FLOTUS asked, if any.
The pool was able to hear from four other speakers, most of whom spoke for several minutes about the importance of Concord Hospital's programs, as well as community support, both physically and financially. Of note, there are currently 45 volunteer cuddlers in the soothing program, and another 50 on the waitlist. Lots of people want to cuddle those babies!
The pool is now holding in vans outside, awaiting FLOTUS for motorcade back to airport.


September 17, 202015:26

#10/ FLOTUS to NH, OTR VISIT TO MANCHESTER FIRE DEPARTMENT
Embargoed until arrival:
FLOTUS is making an off the record stop at the Manchester Fire Department Central Station. This is the same station she visited with POTUS in 2018. A White House official says Mrs. Trump wanted to "check back in with them," and hear about the progress of the "Safe Station Room" at the fire house, which allows for people overdosing on drugs to come in and be treated. The fire station was apparently just alerted to the visit several minutes ago, and we are told we are about ten minutes out.
Your pooler should note this is the first time FLOTUS has done an off the record solo stop, with the press in tow.
Some information provided by the first lady's office:
The First Lady will be greeted by Chief Goonan for a brief update on the Fire Station since her 2018 visit. https://www.wmur.com/article/raw-video-trump-visits-manchester-safe-stat...
More information on safe stations: https://www.manchesternh.gov/departments/fire/safe-station


September 17, 202015:58

#10/ FLOTUS to NH, Stop at fire station
FLOTUS entered the fire station at approximately 3:00, greeted by chief Goonan. Several of the firefighters were lined up behind him to greet her.
FLOTUS thanked the firefighters for "all that you do" and "the sacrifices you and your families make" for them to do their jobs.
The chief told FLOTUS so far this year they have had about 7500 people come through the Safe Station program, asking for help. "We call this a stigma-free zone," he said. "They ask for help, we don't ask questions."
FLOTUS also thanked a handful of Station support staff and Heath Department workers who had assembled, adding "Stay safe."
She and Director Carroll took a brief tour of the station and FLOTUS asked who they were most commonly seeing come in and the chief said mostly men in their 30s. The chief said he's seeing more people come in with meth issues, to which FLOTUS said "so dangerous."
As the press was ushered out of the station Flotus took photos with the firefighters. We are now back en route to the airport.


September 17, 202016:15

#11/ FLOTUS to NH,
At 4:15 we are back at the plane and about to be wheels-up.


September 17, 202017:36

#12/ FLOTUS back at JBA
At 5:35 we are wheels down back at JBA. An uneventful flight, but a tasty provided snack of chicken salad and pita bread.


September 17, 202018:12

#13/ FLOTUS back at White House
At 6:07 we are back at the White House. Did not see flotus exit. Press dropped off at East Wing side due we assume to POTUS departure prep.



  