
    Pool Reports by Cassie Semyon, Spectrum News 



Sent:
Reports:




September 12, 202217:05
VP Supplemental Pool #1
Good afternoon -
Pool is standing by for the Vice President's roundtable with civil and reproductive rights leaders. Some information below on today's event provided on background from a White House official.
Following the Vice President's opening remarks, four speakers are scheduled from the list below including Alexis McGill Johnson, Melanie Campbell, Shalondan Hollingshed, and Kimberly Inez McGuire.More updates to come.
On Background from a White House Official
On Monday, September 12 at 5:00 PM ET, Vice President Kamala Harris will convene civil rights and reproductive rights leaders at the White House to discuss the partnership and coalition building between these groups to protect reproductive health care and abortion access. The pool spray will be live streamed at www.whitehouse.gov/live.
The Vice President is bringing together leaders from across the nation who are on the frontlines fighting to protect a woman's right to make her own reproductive health decisions. Since May, the Vice President has held 20 convenings about the fight to protect reproductive rights.

The Vice President has met with 150+ state legislators from 18 states to discuss protecting reproductive rights, including Arizona, California, Florida, Indiana, Illinois, Kansas, Massachusetts, Montana, New Jersey, Nebraska, Nevada, New York, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, and Virginia.
She has also convened health care providers, constitutional law experts, faith leaders, state attorneys general, disability rights leaders, higher education leaders, and advocates.

Meeting Participants

Melanie L. Campbell, President and CEO, National Coalition on Black Civic Participation, National Convener, Black Women's Roundtable
Dr. Thelma T. Daley, National President/Chair, National Council for Negro Women, Inc.
Karen Finney, Co-Convener, Power Rising
Jocelyn Frye, President, National Partnership for Women & Families
Fatima Goss Graves, President, National Women's Law Center
Damon Hewitt, President and Executive Director, Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law
Shalondan Hollingshed, President, National Urban League Young Professionals
Marcela Howell, President and CEO, In Our Own Voice: National Black Women's Reproductive Justice Agenda
Kimberly Inez McGuire, Executive Director, URGE: Unite for Reproductive & Gender Equity
Derrick Johnson, President and CEO, NAACP
Jesselyn McCurdy, Executive Vice President for Government Affairs, The Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights
Alexis McGill Johnson, President and CEO, Planned Parenthood Federation of America
Marc H. Morial, President and CEO, National Urban League
Janai S. Nelson, President and Director-Counsel, Legal Defense Fund (LDF)
Nancy Northup, President and CEO, Center for Reproductive Rights
Imani Rupert-Gordon, Executive Director, National Center for Lesbian Rights (NCLR)
Rev. Al Sharpton, President and Founder, National Action Network
Mini Timmaraju, President, NARAL-Pro Choice America
Monica Simpson, Executive Director, SisterSong




September 12, 202217:41

VP Supplemental Pool #2
VP is sitting at the head of a long table with guests sitting alongside the table and the wall. A majority of those in attendance are women, many of them nodding along as the introductory remarks were made.
VP: This moment post Dobbs highlights the fact that we have a lot of work to do.
VP: This a moment that I do believe it's about freedom, is about Justice. And it is about some of the core values that our country was founded on.
After her remarks, individuals on either side of the table gave their own remarks, talking not only about abortion rights, but voting rights as well.
After roughly 25 mins of introductory remarks, the pool was ushered out of the room. VP was asked for comment on the Michigan Supreme Court ordering abortion rights appear on the ballot in November, but the question was ignored.
Otter of remarks: https://otter.ai/u/ABleO_0PcLHiQmbhF8okzGrnEsM




  