
    The President. Well, last evening Nancy and I invited all Americans to join in a national crusade against drugs. And this morning I'm signing an Executive order and transmitting legislation to Congress as part of the Federal Government's crusade against drugs. The Executive order that I'm signing will implement new procedures that will work to ensure a drug-free Federal workplace. And the legislation, the Drug-Free America Act, addresses the need to get drugs out of the workplace, schools, and our neighborhoods; it helps the States with drug treatment; and it cracks down on drug traffickers.
This is the Federal Government's way of "just saying no" to drugs. We're getting tough on drugs, and we mean business. To those who are thinking of using drugs, we say: Stop. And to those who are pushing drugs, we say: Beware. I hope all Americans will join in this important effort and make America drug free.
And now first, I will sign the Executive order. And the two transmittal letters. It is done.
Reporter. Mr. President, many of your conservative supporters say that in this Daniloff affair, you've given in to the Russians-that you blinked first. How do you respond to that, sir?
The President. No one on our side has blinked, and I didn't blink. I wasn't going to take any question on either subject. When you asked that—I heard some of the shows Sunday, and I don't know where they get that idea. No, we have not blinked. He is a hostage, as George Shultz said. The individual that we're holding is an accused spy, and there can be no trade between those two; nor does Mr. Daniloff believe that there should be such a trade. But, no, we haven't blinked. From the very first I have felt that it was absolutely essential that we get Daniloff out of their hands and out of that cell which he occupied with what was obviously a Soviet aide—and 4-hours-a-day interrogation.
Q. But do you think now that you can bring it to a successful conclusion and get Daniloff free in an honorable way?
The President. That's our goal, and that's what we're going to
Q. Has there been any progress in those negotiations in the last few days that you can report?
The President. I can't comment on that—I really can't.
Q. Do you have a cold?
The President. What?
Q. Do you have a cold? Are you suffering from a cold?
The President. I think there was something in the breeze up at Camp David this weekend that—I'm subject to certain allergies and pollen, and I brought this back from Camp David with me. It isn't a cold; no, it's an allergy.
Q. How do you feel?
The President. Other than that, I'm feeling fine.
Q. You're not taking any drugs for the-[ inaudible]—antihistamines? [Laughter]
The President. No, Sam [Sam Donaldson, ABC News]. I irrigate my nasal passages with salt water.
Q. Just say no. [Laughter]
  