
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate nine individuals and appoint four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Michele Davis, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of the Treasury (Public Affairs). Ms. Davis currently serves as Deputy National Security Advisor and Deputy Assistant to the President for Communications for the National Security Council. Prior to this, she served as Senior Vice President of Fannie Mae. Earlier in her career, she served as Assistant Secretary (Public Affairs) at the Treasury Department. Ms. Davis received her bachelor's degree from Georgetown University and her master's degree from American University.
The President intends to nominate Caroline C. Hunter, of Florida, to be Commissioner of the Election Assistance Commission, for a four year term. Ms. Hunter currently serves as Deputy Director of the Office of Public Liaison at the White House. Prior to this, she served as Executive Officer of the Office of Citizenship and Immigration Services Ombudsman at the Department of Homeland Security. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Counsel of the Republican National Committee. Ms. Hunter received her bachelor's degree from Pennsylvania State University and her JD from the University of Memphis.
The President intends to nominate David Palmer, of Maryland, to be a Commissioner of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, for the remainder of a five year term expiring July 1, 2011. Mr. Palmer currently serves as Chief of the Employment Litigation Section of the Civil Rights Division at the Department of Justice. Prior to this, he served as Acting Special Litigation Counsel in the Office of Special Counsel for Immigration Related Unfair Employment Practices at the Department of Justice. Earlier in his career, he served as a Senior Trial Attorney in the Disability Rights Section of the Department of Justice. Mr. Palmer received his bachelor's degree from Columbia University and his JD from Case Western Reserve University.
The President intends to nominate Michael J. Astrue, of Massachusetts, to be Commissioner of Social Security, for a six year term beginning January 20, 2007. Mr. Astrue previously served as Chief Executive Officer of Transkaryotic Therapies. Earlier in his career, he served as General Counsel at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Previously, he served as Counselor to the Commissioner of Social Security at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. He also served as Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislation at the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Astrue received his bachelor's degree from Yale University and his JD from Harvard University.
The President intends to appoint Frank D. Stella, of Michigan, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the United Service Organizations, Incorporated (USO), for a three year term beginning December 16, 2006.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Duane R. Roberts, of California, for the remainder of a six year term expiring September 1, 2008.
Jean Kennedy Smith, of New York, for an additional six year term beginning September 2, 2006.
Wilma E. Bernstein, of the District of Columbia, for a six year term beginning September 1, 2006.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Representatives of the United States to the 61st Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
Ned L. Siegel, of Florida
Norman B. Coleman, of Minnesota
Barbara Boxer, of California
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to serve as Alternate Representatives of the United States to the 61st Session of the United Nations General Assembly:
Barbara McConnell Barrett, of Arizona
Cecil E. Floyd, of South Carolina
  