
    To the Congress of the United States:
Safety on the Nation's roads and highways is a subject which affects virtually our entire population. Everyone who drives or who rides in a motor vehicle, everyone who walks on and crosses the roadways has a very high stake in the promotion of traffic safety. But safety measures and remedial programs can succeed only if they have the active support of governments at every level, of business and industry, and of the general public.
In previous years, two reports have been submitted to the Congress which separately described the administration of the two principal laws in this important area: the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 and the Highway Safety Act of 1966. This year a single general summary report has been prepared concerning the operation of these laws. Two separate, supplementary volumes--one for each of the laws--contain additional and more detailed information.
It is my hope that the Highway Safety and the Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Annual Reports for 1970 will do much to increase public understanding of this pervasive menace to life, limb, and property. The summary report in particular tells a great deal about what must be done to fight this danger. It discusses the enormous toll of highway accidents in both human and financial terms, and indicates some favorable effects of remedies instituted since the 1966 legislation was passed. In addition, it describes the lifesaving nature of programs which are now receiving priority attention, tells about the major efforts in 1970 to develop and enforce motor vehicle safety standards, and reports on efforts to expand and improve State highway safety programs in accordance with Federal standards. The report also touches on some of the basic research projects which are advancing the technology of automotive and highway safety.
As I transmit these Reports to the Congress, I emphasize again the commitment of this Administration to advance the cause of highway safety. With the cooperation of the Congress, we can continue to make great strides in this critical field.
RICHARD NIXON
The White House
September 29, 1971
  