
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced members of the Mayor's Homeland Security Advisory Board. These individuals have provided input and recommendations on Mayor Giuliani's commitment to ensure American communities are prepared for terrorist attacks and natural disasters. They also provide a constant source of information on issues pertaining to terrorism, homeland security and domestic emergency preparation.
The Mayor's advisors are well-respected leaders in homeland security and emergency preparedness. The group is led by Board Chair Louis Freeh, former Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and previously announced as a campaign advisor. Also leading the team is former U.S. Customs and Border Patrol Commissioner Robert Bonner as the campaign's Chief Homeland Security Advisor. Joining Freeh and Bonner is U.S. Congressman Peter King (R-NY).
"Rudy Giuliani is the most qualified candidate to prepare Americans to protect our homeland and respond to natural disasters and terrorist attacks," said Freeh. "He demonstrated unparalleled leadership as Mayor of New York City by creating the city's first Office of Emergency Management, while improving preparedness for potential threats that helped create a more resilient city."
In addition, the advisory board has 15 total members including Joe Whitley, former Acting Associate Attorney General; Joshua Filler, former Director of the Department of Homeland Security, Office of State and Local Government Coordination; and Jon Odermatt, former Commissioner of the New York City Office of Emergency Management; Richard Sheirer, former Commissioner, New York City Office of Emergency Management; and Thomas Von Essen, former Commissioner, New York City Fire Department.
"This is a world-class team of advisors with years of security and emergency preparedness experience that will serve the Mayor well," said Bonner. "Nobody understands the necessity of emergency preparedness better than Mayor Giuliani nor has anybody better demonstrated the ability to lead our citizens in a resilient response."
Congressman King added: "I am convinced that regardless of the challenges we face, Mayor Giuliani is the best qualified to prepare and protect America. He has the best vision and knows that homeland security and national security are inseparable. America has a real leader in Rudy Giuliani."
About the Homeland Security Advisory Board:
Louis Freeh, Chairman Former Director
Federal Bureau of Investigation
Rob Bonner
Chief Homeland Security Advisor Former Commissioner, U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Peter King
U.S. Congressman, New York
Joe Whitley
Former General Counsel, U.S. Department of Homeland Security
Joshua Filler
Former Director, Department of Homeland Security, Office of State and Local Government Coordination
Andrew Maner
Former Chief Financial Officer, U.S. Department of Homeland Security
Jon Odermatt
Former Commissioner, New York City Office of Emergency Management
Howard Safir
Former Commissioner, New York City Police Department
Richard Sheirer
Former Commissioner, New York City Office of Emergency Management
Stewart Verdery
Former Assistant Secretary for Policy and Planning, U.S. Department of Homeland Security
Thomas Von Essen
Former Commissioner, New York City Fire Department
Seth Stodder
Former Director of Policy and Planning, U.S. Customs and Border Protection
Peter Beering
Indianapolis, Indiana Terrorism Preparedness Coordinator
Daniel Johnson
Former Director of Homeland Security for the State of Minnesota
John Rabin
Former Program Director, Department of Homeland Security's Lessons Learned Information Sharing
  