
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Nathan A. Simington, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Federal Communications Commission.
Nathan A. Simington is currently a Senior Advisor in the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) specializing in network and telecommunications policy. Among his many responsibilities across the telecommunications industry, he works on 5G security and secure supply chains, the American Broadband Initiative, and is NTIA's representative to the Government Advisory Committee of the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers.
Prior to his appointment at NTIA, Mr. Simington was Senior Counsel to Brightstar Corporation, a leading international company in the wireless industry. In this role, he negotiated deals with companies across the spectrum of the telecommunications and internet industry, including most of the world's leading wireless carriers. As the head lawyer on the advanced mobility products team, he spearheaded numerous international transactions in the devices, towers and services fields and forged strong relationships with leading telecom equipment manufacturers. Prior to his career with Brightstar, Mr. Simington was an attorney in private practice with prominent national and international law firms.
Mr. Simington was also a Presser Fellow in Bucharest in 2005. He earned his J.D. from the University of Michigan Law School, two Masters Degrees from the University of Rochester, and his Bachelor's Degree from Lawrence University. Originally from Saskatoon, Canada, he became an American citizen in 2017. He currently lives with his wife and three children in McLean, Virginia.
Lieutenant General Eric P. Wendt, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Qatar.
Lieutenant General Eric P. Wendt currently serves as Commander of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Special Operations Headquarters. During his more than 34 years of active duty in the United States Army, he has served on multiple combat deployments and held several senior command positions, commanding organizations with thousands of personnel, including military, civilian, and interagency personnel.
Lt. General Wendt speaks Arabic and lived in the Middle East from 2017-2019, working for the United States Department of State and performing duties in multiple countries in the region, including Qatar, while leading an eight-country coalition as the United States Security Coordinator, Israel-Palestinian Authority. He also served as the Chief of Staff of the United States Pacific Command and as Commanding General for the United States Army John F. Kennedy Special Warfare Center and School.
Lieutenant General Wendt earned his B.A. from the University of California, Santa Barbara and his M.A. from the Naval Postgraduate School in Monterey, California, where he also later completed a Senior Service College Postgraduate Academic Fellowship. He is a recipient of numerous military awards and honors, including the Defense Distinguished Service Medal and the Bronze Star Medal with two oak leaf clusters.
Michael Rigas, of Massachusetts, to be Deputy Director for Management, Office of Management and Budget.
Michael Rigas currently serves as the Acting Director of the United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM). He also recently served as the Acting Deputy Director for Management of the United States Office of Management and Budget (OMB).
Mr. Rigas was nominated by President Trump and in March 2018 was unanimously confirmed by the United States Senate to be Deputy Director of OPM. At OPM, he has overseen the successful effort to eliminate a background investigation backlog of over half a million investigations and has helped facilitate the transfer of the National Background Investigation Bureau from OPM to the Department of Defense.
Mr. Rigas has over 25 years of professional experience in the private, public and non-profit sectors, including with Mellon Financial Corporation and Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. He earned his M.A. in Public Administration from Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government and his B.A. and M.A. in Economics from Boston University.
Joyce Campbell Giuffra, of New York, to be a Member of the National Council on the Arts. 
Joyce Campbell Giuffra has held senior positions in government, corporate public relations, and nonprofit organizations. Mrs. Giuffra was previously a Director of Corporate Affairs at Burson-Marsteller, a leading global public relations firm. She has long been active in the arts, with a particular interest in arts education. She also served as a Trustee for American Ballet Theatre, The School of American Ballet, and the Professional Children's School in New York City.
Mrs. Giuffra also previously served as Deputy Press Secretary for Senate Majority Leader Bob Dole. Prior to her service in the United States Senate, Mrs. Giuffra was an Assistant Press Secretary in Office of Media Affairs at the White House under President George H.W. Bush.
Mrs. Giuffra lives in New York City and Southampton, New York. She earned her A.B. with honors in American Government and Political Philosophy from Dartmouth College.
—
Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Arthur Kleinschmidt, Ph.D., of Louisiana, to be Deputy Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
Alejandro Sanchez, of Florida, to be a Member of the President's Export Council.
Vinson X. Palathingal, of Virginia, to be a Member of the President's Export Council.
David Tamasi, of Massachusetts, to be a Member of the Cultural Property Advisory Committee.
Eduardo Verastegui, of Florida, to be a Member of the President's Advisory Commission on Hispanic Prosperity.
Steven Gatena, of California, to be a Member of the National Infrastructure Advisory Council.
Dr. Rick Rader, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the National Council on Disability.
  