
    Pool Reports by Tracy Wilkinson, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 18, 202314:06

unga traveling pool report #1
here is today's first pool report from NY. pool call time is 4 pm.
from the white house
At 11:22 AM ET this morning, the President held an emotional call with the families of the seven American citizens who are returning home to the United States from Iran. Each family member who joined the call spoke with the President.
The White House is also pleased to confirm that the plane carrying the seven American citizens has departed Doha, Qatar.




September 18, 202317:21

Travel pool report #2 leaving hotel
Pool has been screened and Covid tested and we boarded the motorcade, and after holding for a very long time, departed hotel for first fund-raising event at 518 pm. The president unsighted.



September 18, 202317:29

Travel pool report #3 arrived fund raising event
We arrived at the event venue at 522 pm. Hundreds of people lined 5th ave and other streets along the motorcade route in the dark dusky gloom and with umbrellas against the rain.
More to come.



September 18, 202317:52

Travel pool report #4 travelers + more on venue
After a very long hold, again, we have entered the venue. St. Regis Hotel.
549 pm.
And below from the White House, traveling with the president:
Begin forwarded message:
Traveling with the President via motorcade:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director




September 18, 202318:33

Travel pool report #5 Biden comments at fundraiser
(The pool entered as Wes Moore was already speaking. Biden started at 605)
In a smallish room at the St Regis Biden addressed about 50 people, including many Black business people.
Gov. Wes Moore of Maryland introduced Biden.
"This is a person of his word. And he is a person of performance," Moore said. "He is the leader the United States deserves."
Cited Highest black employment rate since 2000. Thousands of black children lifted from poverty.
Biden received a standing ovation.
Joked about serving as senator for 360 (CQ) years.
Standing in front of two US flags, and under two chandeliers, Biden said:
"I would not have a career if it weren't for the African American community."
"We've got a record to run on … and a country to save. That's not hyperbole."
Said he wants to convince world leaders at UNGA that America "is back." Cites the achievements of "bideneconomics".
Cites infrastructure improvements and said infrastructure Week became a "joke" during the last administration. "He didn't build a damn thing … not a damn thing."
$7 billion to HBCUs. Small black businesses starting up at fastest rate in 25 years.
Diverse cabinet. Reason he runs: rebuild dignity, recover middle class, unite the country.
"If we can't unite the country we might as well give up on democracy."
"Freedom is at stake. That was true in 2016 … in 2020 … and i believe now. That's why I'm running."
"I've never been more optimistic. There's no giving up on America."
"What we do on next two years will matter more than in last 15 years." Will set course for next decades.
Wrapped up remarks at 629.



September 18, 202318:42

Travel pool report #5-A supplemental more detail on findraiser
The fundraiser at the St Regis was hosted by the Black Economic Alliance for the Biden Victory Fund, as per the White HouSe.



September 18, 202319:24

Travel pool report #6 more Biden quotes
More and more complete quotes from Biden at Black Economic Alliance event. (Thanks to my pooling colleagues.)
"I'm looking forward to this campaign because we've got a story to tell, a record to run on and a nation to literally save. That's not hyperbole "
"As a United States senator for 360 years, 36 years, I always had great relationships. "
"And we're determined to lead by example in the federal government. Black Americans play a critical role in the economy, and disparities exist in every dimension in black economic life, including representation, participation and pay . I'm committed to addressing these disparities."
(Pool is holding on vans outside the St Regis before continuing to next site.)



September 18, 202319:34

Travel pool #7 rolling to next site
We are rolling at 729.
Lots of people still lining roads though fewer than before.



September 18, 202320:27

Travel pool report #8 Biden comments broadway fundraiser
Arrived at Lunt-Fontanne Theatre on broadway around 730. A large marquis outside in red, white and blue proclaimed "Broadway for Biden"
Event was in progress when pool arrived. Stars,comedians etc spoke in succession on stage in darkened theater.
Theatrical producer Jeffrey Seller (Rent, Hamilton) Said being here among stars from broadway was as close as he could get to heaven but: "We must re-elect Joseph Biden"
Biden took the stage at 747 to an orchestra's playing of All that Jazz.
"Broadway is back!" He declared.
Recalled taking beau and hunter to a Bette midler broadway show when they were young. Midler saw them in the audience and said who would take kids to this kind of show.
"A lot of people seem focused on my age," He said. "I get it believe me, I know it more than anyone. "
But he says "I knew what to do" when Covid hit, when Ukraine was attacked, when democracy was at stake.
"That's why I'm running ."
Says trump can bow down to Putin but he won't.
"I will not side with dictators like Putin. Maybe Trump and his maga friends can bow down but I won't…If re-elected:
"We will have saved American democracy . I am more optimistic about the future of this country than in the 800 years I've served," he said to big laughs.
"I'm running because democracy is at stake. Because 2024 democracy is on the ballot once again. And let there be no question: Donald trump and his MAGA republicans are determined to destroy American democracy. And I will always defend, protect and fight for our democracy."
He concluded at 759pm with the orchestra playing "Tonight " from West Side Story. And the pool was yanked
More to come.



September 18, 202321:03

Travel pool report#9 Ron and more quotes
Rolling back to RON at 855 pm
More quotes from broadway:
After recounting how the violence in Charlottesville inspired him to run for president, Biden said:
"I'm running because - hear this - I want the entire nation to join me in sending the strongest, clearest, most powerful message possible that political violence in America is never, never, never acceptable."
"I don't believe America is a dark, negative nation, a nation of carnage driven by anger, fear and revenge. Donald Trump does. To his supporters, he says, I am your retribution. … We're a failing nation, he says. Either they win or we win and (if) they win we no longer have a country. Did you ever hear the president of the United States speak like that. Well o believe we are a hopeful optimistic nation driven by the proposition that everyone deserves a shot ."
Arrived RON 859 pm



September 18, 202321:08

Travel pool report #10 lid!
And we have a lid at 902 pm.
A million thanks to my generous and helpful co-poolers. Good night.




  