
    WASHINGTON, DC --Today, President Obama announced that he has nominated Michael Moore, Carmen Ortiz and Edward Tarver to be US Attorneys. Moore is a nominee for the Middle District of Georgia, Ortiz for the District of Massachusetts, and Tarver for the Southern District of Georgia.
"I have nominated these three outstanding men and women to serve as US Attorneys in their states," President Obama said. "I nominated them for their diligence, intellect, integrity and their commitment to serving the public good. They will be distinguished US Attorneys, and I am grateful for their willingness to serve."
Michael Moore: Nominee for the Middle District of Georgia
A private practitioner with a broad criminal and civil practice for the last twelve years, Michael Moore also spent five years in the District Attorney's Office, rising to the position of Chief Assistant District Attorney. Moore served as a Georgia state Senator for a year in 2001-2002. He received his B.A. in 1989 and his J.D. in 1993, both from Mercer University.
Carmen Ortiz: Nominee for the District of Massachusetts
Carmen Ortiz is an Assistant U.S. Attorney for the District of Massachusetts, a position she has held since 1997. She served as an Assistant District Attorney for Middlesex County from 1983 to 1988 and from 1991 to 1994. She worked in private practice from 1988 to 1989 and from 1994 to 1997. After graduating from law school, she spent two years as a trial attorney in the Criminal Division of the Justice Department. She received her B.A. from Adelphi University in 1978 and her J.D. from George Washington University in 1981.
Edward Tarver: Nominee for the Southern District of Georgia
Edward Tarver is a Senator of the Georgia General Assembly, where he has served since September 2005, and a shareholder in the Augusta law firm Hull, Towill, Norman, Barrett & Salley. He received his B.A. from Augusta State University in 1981 and his J.D. from the University of Georgia School of Law in 1991. Between college and law school, he served in the United States Army, achieving the rank of Captain. After graduating from law school, he clerked for Judge Dudley Bowen, Jr. on the District Court for the Southern District of Georgia.
  