
    THE VICE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Commissioner. How about a round of applause for Commissioner O'Neill? (Applause.)  I just so appreciate his leadership.
Well, thank you all. It is a great honor to be here, to be among the men and women of NYPD. And allow me to bring, first, the admiration and greetings from a friend of mine — (applause) — who lives just down the street and is just as big a fan of NYPD. I want to bring greetings from the President of the United States, President Donald Trump. Thank you all. (Applause.)
I think you know how the President feels about all of you, as a New Yorker. But I want you to know that his Vice President feels the same way. I told the Commissioner: My very first time in New York City, I was a member of Congress. I came here a week after September 11th. And like all of the rest of the country, I marveled at NYPD, and your fire department, and your public safety, and the selfless courage of the men and women who serve in uniform in this community. And every day since, it's been NYPD, working with state authorities and federal authorities, that's been leaning into the fight here in New York City.
And I want to tell you, as we remembered 9/11 last week, the 18th anniversary, I want you to know that your President, his Vice President, and the American people know that NYPD has played a central role in keeping this city, this state, and our nation safe over the last 18 years. And we're grateful to each and every one of you. We truly are. (Applause.)
And it's not like they haven't been trying. But the fact that there's been no major terrorist attack on this city or on this country in the last 18 years is a credit to each and every one of you, to the men and women of our armed forces, and to all of our intelligence community working around the clock, around the world. And so I wanted to let you know how strongly we all feel about that.
I also wanted to say congratulations on winning that national football championship. (Applause.) I just met — (applause) — that is quite an accomplishment and I guess it's the 11th time that NYPD has won. But who's counting, right? (Laughter.) But, no, it's great fun.
And in fact, I was coming into town for a couple of other stops, and we got a very important briefing here today on counterterrorism efforts and heard about what each one of you are doing each and every day to keep this city safe.
But I also was very much appreciated that we got a letter at the White House, Commissioner, that said — said that NYPD football was more than willing to come to the White House if we were looking to have a team there. (Laughter.) So I said — we all said, "Well, how about the Vice President comes here?" And congratulations, NYPD, on a great, great effort.
Listen, lastly, I just want to — I want to say to you: The President and I know you have no ordinary jobs. Okay? I mean, you put on a uniform every day, and, in so doing, you consider the lives of the eight and a half million people that call New York City home. You consider their lives more important than your own.
I mean, the calling of your life is a selfless calling. And the Commissioner and I just walked by the Hall of Heroes here. And we think of heroes lost in recent days and in many years past. And I just want you to know: Even at times when it seems like there may be some out there that don't appreciate the men and women who serve on the Thin Blue Line of law enforcement, your President, his Vice President, and the American people stand with the men and women on the Thin Blue Line and we will always will. (Applause.) Okay? We're with you. We're with you. (Applause.) We're with you and we're grateful for you each and every day.
And let me say one last thing. And that is, you know, that my uncle was a police officer in Chicago for 25 years. And so I don't know what it's like to put on that uniform, but I know what it's like to be a family member. And so I want you to know, as much as we're here to say thank you for your service, I want to thank your families — the families that support you, that support you to serve in a calling in no ordinary job, that pray for you each and every day, and then support you when you come home after those hard days.
And so just, please, before the day is out, I hope you just tell your family members — your spouses, your parents, your kids — that their President and their Vice President appreciate them every bit as much as we appreciate you. Okay?
So, listen, thanks for coming out. Congratulations again on that football championship. Well done. Number 12 is just around the corner. Is that right, Commissioner?
POLICE COMMISSIONER O'NEILL: No doubt. No doubt. (Applause.)
THE VICE PRESIDENT: And from the bottom of my heart, on behalf of your President, and I know on behalf of the American people, thank you for your service NYPD and God bless you all. Okay? (Applause.)
  