
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to designate three individuals and appoint nineteen individuals to serve in his administration:
The President intends to designate Tim S. McClain, of California, to be Acting Assistant Secretary of Veterans Affairs (Human Resources and Administration).
The President intends to designate Cortright Wetherill, Jr., of Pennsylvania, to be a Chairman of the Advisory Committee on the Arts, John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President intends to appoint W. Roy Grizzard, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Committee For Purchase From People Who Are Blind Or Severely Disabled (Department of Labor Representative).
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Arctic Research Commission for the remainder of a four-year term expiring February 26, 2008:
Michele Longo Eder of Oregon (Business Representative)
Thomas C. Royer of Virginia (Academic Representative)
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee:
Lawrence T. Babbio, Jr. of New York
Gregory Q. Brown of Illinois
Ken Dahlberg of California
William J. Hannigan of New Jersey
Stan Sigman of Texas
Joseph R. Wright of New York
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts:
Elisabeth D. DeVos, of Michigan, for a six-year term expiring September 1, 2010
Mary Mochary, of Virginia, for a six-year term expiring September 1, 2010
Mary M. Ourisman, of the District of Columbia, for a six-year term expiring September 1, 2010
Gabrielle B. Reynolds, of Ohio, for a six-year term expiring September 1, 2010
David Rubenstein, of Maryland, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2008
Stephen Schwarzman, of New York, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 1, 2008
Alex Spanos, of California, for a six-year term expiring September 1, 2010
Sandy Treadwell, of New York, for a six-year term expiring September 1, 2010
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Advisory Panel:
Cheryl Bates-Harris, of Pennsylvania, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 27, 2008
Dorothy L. Watson, of Maryland, for the remainder of a four-year term expiring July 27, 2008
The President intends to designate Berthy De La Rosa-Aponte, of Florida, to be Chairperson of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Advisory Panel.
  