
    
We want to keep you in the  loop while Marco is on the trail. Here is the latest coverage of Marco's big policy speeches and his campaign events.
Here's what we've put up in the last week or so:

Just over a week ago, Marco gave a big speech in Charleston, S.C., about the policies he'd pursue to deal with the rise of China. His ideas are based on the Rubio doctrine, and include a stronger military, especially one that can sustain more air and sea patrols in the Pacific, more efforts to protect our economy from unfair Chinese policies, and a greater emphasis on human rights.
Click here to read Marco's full remarks.

At the beginning of last week, Marco made a historic trip to northern Nevada, visiting four different cities and towns, including one that had never hosted a candidate before: Yerington, Nevada. We got big crowds, and Marco got a great reception highlighting his longtime status as an outsider, from his insurgent primary run to this presidential race, where the establishment urged him to wait his turn.
Click here to read more.

In Oklahoma City last week, Marco gave a talk to a gathering of oil-and-gas industry leaders, laying out a few things he'd like to do on energy policy. There's more to come this fall, but what Marco did have to say about a 21st century vision for American energy policy got a great reception.
Click here to read his speech.

We announced Marco's Massachusetts leadership team last week, and we're really pleased with it. He's got three state senators (half the GOP members of the body!) on board, including the assistant minority leader, plus two young, energetic state representatives and Bob Maginn, the former chairman of the state party.
Read more about the team here.

Marco made a whirlwind trip through New Hampshire at the end of August, visiting four towns and three counties in just a day. He met with students in Hanover, stopped at a service center in Orford, visited a VFW in Littleton, and ended the day with an overflowing town hall meeting in Londonderry.
Read more about the trip here.

When he was in the Palmetto State, Marco also met with voters in Myrtle Beach and Indian Land. He did a town hall at the University of South Carolina too, and gave a quick talk to the men's and women's basketball teams.
Read more here.
  