
    
  "Fumble" ... "An Unforced Error" ... "A Huge Embarrassment" ... "VERY Awkward"

CNN's John King: "That Was Embarrassing." KING: "Normally you count your ducks. If you're going to fix something in an open convention, you count your ducks first. That was embarrassing." (CNN's "Situation Room," 9/5/12)
The Washington Post's Chris Cillizza: "That was VERY Awkward." (Twitter.com, 9/5/12)
NBC News' Chuck Todd: "How Do You Mess Up God And Jerusalem Politics In 2012? ... That Was A BAD Fumble." "How do you mess up God and Jerusalem politics in 2012? As well organized as the convo was MESSAGE wise yesterday, that was a BAD fumble" (Twitter.com, 9/5/12)
Politico's Byron Tau: "Talk About Bad Optics." (Twitter.com, 9/5/12)
CNN's Wolf Blitzer: "This Is Going To Cause Some Angst Out There I Suspect." (CNN's "Situation Room," 9/5/12)
Democratic Strategist Paul Begala: "Beyond Awkward. ... Embarrassing. ... Stupid. ... An Unforced Error..." BLITZER: "I guess maybe it sounded even if you will. But what do you think?" BEGALA: "Beyond awkward. It's embarrassing. It's stupid. It's an unforced error by my party." (CNN's "Situation Room," 9/5/12)
BuzzFeed's Zeke Miller: "Unexpected Procedural Chaos." "The Democratic National Convention dissolved into unexpected procedural chaos Wednesday afternoon when the party sought to placate critics and insert language pledging allegiance to an undivided Jerusalem." (Zeke Miller, "Chaos As Democrats Try To Put Jerusalem, God Back In Platform," BuzzFeed, 9/5/12)
The Washington Post's Jennifer Rubin: "An Embarrassment For The Obama Campaign." "The issue, which was finally resolved on the floor of the Democratic National Convention today, was widely seen in pro-Israel circles as an embarrassment for the Obama campaign and a battle that needlessly rekindled mistrust of the administration by pro-Israel groups." (Jennifer Rubin, "Democrats Forced To Reverse Platform Language On Jerusalem," The Washington Post, 9/5/12)
CBS New York: "Democrats Fumble Major Israel Issue, Put Jerusalem As Capital In Platform" (CBS New York, 9/5/12)
CNN's Jessica Yellin: "A Self-Inflicted Wound." YELLIN: "There's a sense, clearly, that this was a self-inflicted wound that they could repair, that they had time to repair."  (CNN's "Situation Room," 9/5/12)
Los Angeles Times' Michael Memoli And Matea Gold: "The Maneuver May Have Backfired." "But the maneuver may have backfired, infuriating delegates who objected to the changes." (Michael Memoli And Matea Gold, "Democrats Put God, Jerusalem Back In Platform Over Objections," Los Angeles Times, 9/5/12)
The Huffington Post's Jon Ward And Joshua Hersh: "An Embarrassing Moment For The Party." "A rare unscripted moment at the Democratic National Convention here Wednesday resulted in an embarrassing moment for the party that is certain to be used in Republican television ads over the next two months." (Jon Ward And Joshua Hersh, "Democrats Efforts To Reinsert 'God' And 'Jerusalem' Into Platform Met With Loud Opposition," The Huffington Post, 9/5/12)
  