
    Pool Reports by Nikki Schwab, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




September 14, 202208:50

Travel Pool Report No. 1 - motorcade departure
Hi all - I'm your travel pooler for today's trip to Detroit.
The motorcade departed the South Lawn at 8:49 a.m.
Pool did not see POTUS.
Your pooler spotted Karine Jean-Pierre, Anita Dunn and Bruce Reed mingling outside the motorcade before we left.
It's 65 degrees and sunny on this late summer day.
More TK.



September 14, 202209:15

Travel Pool Report No. 2 - JBA arrival/travelers
The motorcade pulled up to Air Force One on the tarmac of JBA at 9:14 a.m.
The drive was uneventful.
Traveling with the President in the motorcade en route Joint Base Andrews:

Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor
Rob Flaherty, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Digital Strategy
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Middle East and North Africa
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic Planning
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Ashley Jones, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Alex DeMots, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Staff Secretary
Jared Bernstein, Member of the Council of Economic Advisors




September 14, 202209:19

Travel Pool No. 3 - JBA/he didn't speak
President Biden stepped out of his SUV at 9:15 a.m. He ignored pool and briefly talked to the greeter. He waved at the top of the stairs and entered AF1 9:16 a.m.
We'll be wheels up momentarily.
Greeting the President upon arrival at Joint Base Andrews:

Colonel Matthew Jones, Commander, 89th Airlift Wing




September 14, 202209:23

Travel Pool Report 4 - more travelers
Passing along from the White House:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route Detroit Metropolitan Airport:

Secretary Pete Buttigieg, U.S. Department of Transportation
Administrator Mike Regan, Environmental Protection Agency
Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI)
Rep. Andy Levin (MI-09)
Rep. Haley Stevens (MI-11)
Rep. Debbie Dingell (MI-12)
Rep. Brenda Lawrence (MI-14)
Rep. Fred Upton (MI-06)
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Gina McCarthy, Assistant to the President & National Climate Advisor
Rob Flaherty, Deputy Assistant to the President & Director of Digital Strategy
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations
Terry Wolff, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Middle East and North Africa
Carla Frank, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Strategic Planning
Sheila Grant, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Presidential Speechwriter
Travis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director
Ashley Jones, Special Assistant to the President & House Legislative Affairs Liaison
Alex DeMots, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy Staff Secretary
Jared Bernstein, Member of the Council of Economic Advisors




September 14, 202210:34

Travel Pool Report No. 5 - Detroit arrival
Air Force One was wheels up at 9:26 a.m.
Karine Jean-Pierre started her gaggle at 10:11 a.m.
She spoke for about 14.5 minutes.
She confirmed that the president spoke with King Charles earlier today. I'm told that the gaggle played out.
We were wheels down at 10:26 a.m.
More TK.



September 14, 202210:44

Travel Pool Report No. 6 - Detroit greeting
President Biden disembarked AF1 at 10:38 a.m. He's wearing his aviators. He first approached Rep. Tlaib and then went down the line. Sen. Stabenow, Secretary Buttigieg, Rep. Dingell et. al. followed the president off the plane. They mingled on the tarmac for several minutes.
He stepped into the beast at 10:41 a.m.
He didn't acknowledge the pool.
Motorcade pulled away at 10:43 a.m.
Greeting the President on arrival at Detroit Metropolitan Airport:

Mike Duggan, Mayor of Detroit (MI)
Warren Evans, Wayne County Executive (MI)
Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib (MI-13)




September 14, 202211:18

Travel Pool Report No. 7 - Detroit Auto Show arrival
The motorcade pulled in at 11:11 a.m.
As we exited the airport there were clusters of onlookers with their phones out. The motorcade passed the Uniroyal Giant Tire - a historical landmark that started out as a Ferris wheel at the 1964 New York World's Fair. Otherwise, motorcade ride was uneventful.
Pool is pre-setting for the tour and didn't see the president enter.
Participating in the greet with the President on the tarmac at Detroit Metropolitan Airport:

Mike Duggan, Mayor of Detroit (MI)
Warren Evans, Wayne County Executive (MI)
Congresswoman Rashida Tlaib (MI-13)
Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI)
Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12)
Congresswoman Brenda Lawrence (MI-14)
Congressman Fred Upton (MI-04)
Congressman Andy Levin (MI-09)
Congresswoman Haley Stevens (MI-11)




September 14, 202211:20

Travel Pool Report No. 8 - tour details
Passing along:
Pool is holding on the floor of the car show waiting for POTUS.
On background from a White House official –
Today, President Biden will tour the Detroit Auto Show, the largest auto show in North America. Throughout the day, he will meet with union workers, CEOs, and local leaders. He will also stop at the Chevrolet, General Motors, Ford, and Stellantis booths to view some of their latest car models on display, including the:
Jeep Grand Cherokee 4xe 30th Anniversary Edition, which is being manufactured at the Jefferson North Assembly Plant in Michigan and features a 2.0L I4 Turbo / PHEV engine.
Jeep Wrangler Willy's 4xe, which is manufactured at the Toledo North Assembly Plant, OH, and features a 2.0L I4 Turbo / PHEV engine.
Chevrolet Corvette Z06, which is starting production this month in Bowling Green, Kentucky. With 670 horsepower, the Corvette Z06 features a powerful naturally-aspirated production V8 engine, hand-built in Bowling Green as well by master builders.
Chevrolet Silverado EV, which starts production next year in Michigan and is estimated to have a range of 400 miles on a full charge. The car features up to 10.2kW of off-board power when paired with the available accessory power bar and up to 10,000 lbs. of maximum trailering.
Ford F150, which the President test drove during a factory visit in Dearborn, MI last year.
Following the tour, the President will deliver remarks on how his economic plan is fueling the electric vehicle manufacturing boom in America and lowering costs for American families. He will also announce that his Administration is approving the first set of electric charging plans for 35 states, including Michigan's plan, ahead of schedule. Together these 35 states will cover 53,000 miles of highway with EV chargers, serving 38 million drivers and 47 million cars every year.
Introducing the President will be Ryan Buchalski, the President of UAW LOCAL 598, where has been a member for 20 years. Buchalski is the representative for members at the Flint Assembly plant, which builds heavy duty pickups for General Motors.
President Biden's Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Boom
Since President Biden took office, electric vehicle sales have tripled in America and companies have announced nearly $85 billion to build America's electric vehicle future. For instance:

Toyota announced an additional $2.5 billion investment in a Greensboro, North Carolina manufacturing facility.
Honda and LG Energy Solution announced a $4.4 billion joint venture in the U.S.
ABB is announcing a new EV charging manufacturing facility in Columbia, South Carolina capable of producing up to 10,000 chargers per year.
Lincoln Electric announced a new line of fast EV chargers in Cleveland, Ohio.
Siemens has set a goal of expanding manufacturing to build one million EV chargers over the next four years in the U.S. They're expanding their sites in Grand Prairie, Texas and Pomona, California with a union (IBEW) workforce.
SK Signet announced a $35 million Texas investment to build chargers in the United States for the first time.
Piedmont Lithium announced a $582 million investment to establish a lithium refining manufacturing facility in Tennessee for EV batteries.

Biden-Harris Administration Bipartisan Infrastructure Law Investments in Michigan

Electric Buses: The City of Detroit was awarded $6.9 million to double their fleet of electric buses. Funding will be used to purchase four new electric buses and to install charging equipment.
Upgrading Michigan Avenue: The city was awarded $25 million to upgrade nearly two miles of Michigan Avenue connecting Downtown and Corktown Detroit. The investment will improve safety, reduce congestion, and help to revitalize the neighborhood through support for dedicated lanes for buses, transit, and connected autonomous vehicles; safety improvements; and shelter and seating at bus stops along 2 miles connecting Downtown and Corktown.
Great Lakes: The Administration awarded $1 billion to accelerate the cleanup and restoration of the Great Lakes. The investments will address legacy pollution due to fertilizer and wastewater runoff from agriculture and industrial activity.




September 14, 202211:46

Travel Pool Report No. 9 - the tour begins
The president entered the showroom floor at 11:36 a.m.
The pool spotted GM's Mark Reuss and Mary Barra awaiting Biden's arrival, along with Craig Glidden - GM's general counsel.
POTUS first greeted Mary Barra and started the tour in the GMC section.
Pool then pre-set in front of a bright orange Corvette.
Biden remarked something to the pool as he laid eyes on the car. We believe he said, this thing's nice, but it was hard to hear.
Barra guided Biden into the driver's seat and he turned on the motor and fired up the engine - which is very loud. One of the GM execs offered Biden his hand to help him out of the sports car.
"He said he's driving it home," Barra said.
More TK
Touring the Detroit Auto Show with the President:

Gretchen Whitmer, Governor of Michigan
Senator Debbie Stabenow (MI)
Ray Curry, President of the United Autoworkers




September 14, 202212:05

Travel Pool Report No. 10 - a Mustang and birthday song
Biden then sidled up next to a bright blue all-electric Silverado. Barra showed the president how much space is in the bed and then they walked along to the driver's seat, with the president getting in. He didn't turn on the engine this time.
The president briefly paused for a photo-op, as pool was pulled out of earshot.
Now we're in the Ford section and the president is looking at an orange electric Mustang with Bill Ford
The president was comparing the specs of the Mustang versus his Corvette - and how long it takes to get up to 60 MPH.
"But who's counting," he said.
As the president walked up toward an electric Ford truck, he turned to the pool.
"Can I ask you all a favor," he asked. He then told us that his wife says that happy birthday must be sung on a person's birthday and asked the pool to sing to a woman named Angela.
"She's turning 21," Biden remarked.
"Thank you, my wife would kill me," he said as the song wrapped up.
More TK



September 14, 202212:45

Travel Pool Report No. 11 - more tour/2024 quotes from Dingell/Stabenow
Next Biden took a look at a 2022 Electric Ford E-Transit utility van.
And then we headed to Jeep. The president greeted Carlos Tavares, CEO of Stellantis. He first walked up on a pedestal to look at the Grand Cherokee and then a Jeep employee pulled up in a Wrangler. Two more Jeep employees drove by in a electric Grand Cherokee.
The president got into the driver's seat of the Grand Cherokee on display, while the other vehicles went through an obstacle course called "Camp Jeep" around him. He didn't turn the engine on.
"He's thinking about it," Sen. Stabenow told the pool when asked if Biden was going to buy the Corvette. She also talked midterms and Sen. Graham's abortion bill. Let your pooler know if you'd like the Otter.
Pool also talked to Gov. Whitmer and Rep. Dingell.
Whitmer initially brushed off a question about whether Biden should run again in 2024, but Dingell jumped in and said she would support him.
"I'm gonna tell you if he runs, we're all supporting him," Dingell said, adding that those are "questions designed to cause trouble."
"There's no question, if President Biden runs again count me in," Stabenow chimed in when asked *if* he should run again.
Let your pooler know if you'd like that Otter as well.
POTUS is with 60 Minutes so pool has been holding by the Lincoln display.
More TK.



September 14, 202212:57

Travel Pool Report No. 12 - he drives
Biden test drove an electric Cadillac Lyriq through the show room.
He has a Secret Service agent in the passenger seat
"It's a beautiful car but I love the Corvette," he said.
"I like it, I like it," he said.
Press was pulled as he was still speaking, I'll send any more additional quotes in the next report.



September 14, 202213:38

Travel Pool Report No. 13 - speaking program begins
The speaking program has started in Detroit. The remarks are livestreamed, so I'll only send color.
Run of Show for the President's remarks at the Detroit Auto Show:

Michael Duggan, Mayor of Detroit (MI)
Ray Curry, President of the United Autoworkers
Administrator Mike Regan, Environmental Protection Agency
Secretary Pete Buttigieg, U.S. Department of Transportation
Debbie Dingell, U.S. Congresswoman (MI-12)
Debbie Stabenow, U.S. Senator (MI)
Debbie Stabenow, U.S. Senator (MI)
Ryan Buchalski, Member of UAW Local 598
The President

There are an assortment of Jeeps, Fords and other cars behind him on a stage that are red, white and blue – and one that's silver. There's also a massive flag alongside one of the walls. A white Hummer, like he drove last year, is parked next to the flag.
Between a half and a third of audience members are wearing the red UAW t-shirts and polos.
Participating in a photo line with the President at the Detroit Auto Show:

Garlin Gilchrist II, Lieutenant Governor of Michigan
Dana Nessel, Attorney General of Michigan
Jocelyn Benson, Michigan Secretary of State
Mike Duggan, Mayor of Detroit
Debbie Stabenow, U.S. Senator (MI)
Debbie Dingell, U.S. Congresswoman (MI-12)
Rashida Tlaib, U.S. Congresswoman (MI-13)
Andy Levin, U.S. Congressman (MI-9)
Haley Stevens, U.S. Congresswoman (MI-11)
Brenda Lawrence, U.S. Congresswoman (MI-14)
Michigan State Senator Stephanie Chang
Michigan State Representative Tyrone Carter
Warren Evans, Wayne County Executive

To make life easier for your pooler, here are the Otters of Stabenow/Whitmer/Dingell:
https://otter.ai/u/dOoAj2xTf6QgKL0vxiD2Gc52UAY
https://otter.ai/u/1TF8hXgC_mGbCZZLTkF9dJTe27I
And here's a Dropbox link for photos from the Stabenow/Whitmer/Dingell chat, along with a few shots of POTUS and cars:
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/zditk66uussnei6/AABSbvZpyQhvgGutJDc05Qoia?dl=0 



September 14, 202214:40

Travel Pool Report No. 14 - remarks wrap
President Biden started his remarks at 2:15 p.m., after a raucous speech by Ryan Buchalski, who said the president was, "Kicking ass for the working class!"
Biden said that the cars at the auto show give him "optimism." "Although I like their speed too," he added.
"I'm so tired to trickle down I can't stand it," he later noted.
He wrapped at 2:35 p.m. He got a standing ovation.
He then started working the crowd. Pool is holding.
Earlier, Rep. Dingell mentioned that GOP Rep. Fred Upton was in the audience, making it a bipartisan outing.
Gov. Whitmer also spoke. The run-of-show had Sen. Stabenow listed twice.
More TK



September 14, 202215:41

Travel Pool Report No. 15 - fundraising reception
Pool was brought into the Portside Ballroom of the Huntington Place convention center for a Michigan Democratic Party fundraiser for Gov. Whitmer.
"We know he's a car guy, but he didn't have to be here," she said during her remarks, thanking him for making the trip.
Biden arrived onstage at 3:26 a.m.
He made a joke again about Rep. Dingell being "my boss."
He hit many of the same themes he's mentioned in recent political appearances.
"The right to choose is on the ballot," he said. "Is literally on the ballot."
"This is not your father's Republican Party," Biden said, adding that goes for "Gretchen's opponent" who "wants to take us backwards full of anger and division."
Biden's mic was cutting in and out during his remarks.
He alluded to Trump's many infrastructure weeks, saying he made it a "punchline," unlike Democrats who got the bill passed.
"They embrace political violence," he again said of "extreme" Republicans.
"To this day they defend those who stormed the Capitol on January 6," he said.
"The extreme MAGA Republicans are destroying American democracy," he said.
Pool was pulled at 3:40 p.m. as speech wrapped.
Probably 150-200 people in the crowd.
More Tk



September 14, 202216:27

Travel Pool Report No. 16 - Detroit departure
The motorcade pulled out of the convention center 3:54 p.m.
The ride was uneventful.
It pulled up to Air Force One at 4:24 p.m.
Biden was walking up the stairs as pool pulled up. We glimpsed him from a distance boarding at 4:26 p.m.
We'll be wheels up to JBA shortly.
Fuller, additional quotes from the fundraiser: "The right to choose is on the ballot," he said. "In this state, is literally on the ballot."
"There is an extreme set of Republicans who run the Republican Party today. And that includes Gretchen's opponent from what I've read, who wants to take us backwards full of anger and division."
"On choice, Democrats want to codify Roe v. Wade, Republicans want a national ban on abortion. In fact, Gretchen's opponent supports an extreme ban with no exceptions for rape, incest or the life of the mother."
"Gretchen's opponent calls the infrastructure law fake, while Gretchen knows infrastructure provides jobs while keeping commitments ... Fixing the damn roads, for instance."



September 14, 202217:56

Travel Pool Report No. 17 - JBA arrival
Air Force One was wheels up from Detroit at 4:37 p.m.
We had no visitors to the press cabin. 
AF1 landed at JBA at 5:38 p.m. 
President Biden disembarked AF1 at 5:48 p.m. He's wearing his aviators. He saluted to the greeter and turned away from the pool. He walked onto Marine One at 5:49 p.m. 
He was followed onto Marine One by Karine Jean-Pierre, Anita Dunn and Bruce Reed, among others.
Marine One was wheels up at 5:55 p.m. 
Traveling with the President in Marine One en route the White House:

Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff
Anita Dunn, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President
Annie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations
Karine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press Secretary
Ashley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations

A big thanks to Aurelia End who served as a great co-pooler today. 
Tossing it to the in-town pool after providing some additional fundraiser details:
Speaking Order for the Michigan Democratic Party reception:

Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II
Governor Gretchen Whitmer
The President

Participating in a photo line with the President at a Michigan Democratic Party reception:

Governor Gretchen Whitmer
Lieutenant Governor Garlin Gilchrist II
Congresswoman Debbie Dingell (MI-12)
Michael Duggan, Mayor of Detroit (MI)

Thanks all!




 
Pool Reports below by Francesca Chambers, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




September 14, 202209:52

In-town pool report #1: gaggle starting soon
Good morning,
The White House advises that the AF1 gaggle will begin at approximately 10:05 AM.
Link:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HzNcvsc7wBY



September 14, 202217:49

In Town Pool Report #2: gathering for arrival
The pool is gathering for the president's arrival on the South Lawn.



September 14, 202218:13

In Town Pool Report #3: POTUS arrival/no news
President Biden landed on the South Lawn in Marine One at 6:06 PM EDT.
He exited the helicopter and walked across the grass to the Oval Office -- far away from press and questions that were being shouted in his direction over the roar of the helo. He entered the Oval at 6:10 pm and shut the door behind him.



September 14, 202218:25

In Town-Pool Report #4: LID
The White House announced a travel/photo lid at 6:24 pm EDT. Have a good evening, everyone!




  