
    Tuesday, September 27th, will be the 17th anniversary of the unveiling of the Contract with America on the steps of the US Capitol Building.
The results of the Contract with America area matter of public record - a tidal wave election, the successful completion of the contract, welfare reform, balanced budgets, and a booming economy.
These are the same positive results - and more - which I want to bring to America again, this time from the White House. That's why I plan to unveil a new, 21st Century Contract with America next week in Iowa.
You have a chance to be the first person to see a copy of this new, 21st Century Contract with America.
Between now and September 27th, if you donate $19.94 or more at Newt.org, you will be entered into a contest to get a first glimpse at the new 21st Century Contract with America before we officially unveil it in Iowa. The winner will also receive an autographed copy of the original Contract with America and a call from me.
Our presidential campaign today reminds me of our congressional campaign in 1994, when we set out to regain control of the House of Representatives for the first time in 40 years. All the pundits said it was impossible. But we proved them wrong.
Let's do it again, this time with the presidency. Donate $19.94 at Newt.org between now and September 27th and you will have a chance to be the first to see the new, 21st Century Contract with America.
Your friend,
Newt
Your friend,

NO PURCHASE NECESSARY TO ENTER OR WIN. No contribution or payment of any kind is necessary to enter or win this Promotion. Making a contribution does not increase your chances of winning. To enter by making a contribution, click here. To enter without making a contribution, click here. Void where prohibited. The Promotion begins on September 21, 2011 at 6:00am Eastern Daylight Time and ends on September 27, 2011 at 11:59pm Eastern Daylight Time. Entries must be received by September 27, 2011 at 11:59pm Eastern Daylight Time. One (1) winner will receive the following Prize: an advanced copy of the new 21st Century Contract with America and an autographed copy of the original Contract with America signed by Newt Gingrich. Approximate total retail value of the Prize is $100. Odds of winning depend on the number of entries received. The Promotion is open to citizens and permanent residents (green card holders) of the United States who are legal residents of one of the fifty states, Puerto Rico, or the District of Columbia and are at least 18 years of age or the age of majority as determined by state law. Details and qualifications for participation in this Promotion may apply. Restrictions are listed in the Official Rules. The sponsor is Newt 2012, 3110 Maple Drive Suite 400, Atlanta, GA.
  