
    Today, leaders in the outdoor industry, a $788 billion industry that employs 5.2 million Americans, announced their support for the climate provisions within President Biden's Build Back Better Agenda. Their letter, which was led by the Outdoor Industry Association and jointly signed by 29 of the trade group's member companies, expressed "strong support for the significant and meaningful climate provisions contained in the proposed budget reconciliation bill."
The letter is signed by 22 Designs, BioLite, Burton, Carhartt, Eddie Bauer, evo, Hydro Flask, K2 Sports, Klean Kanteen, L.L. Bean, MiiR, NEMO Equipment, New Balance, Nite Ize, Oberalp North America, Osprey, Outdoor Afro, Orvis, PacWesty, Patagonia, PeopleForBikes, Public Lands, REI, Ruffwear, Simms Fishing Products, Snow Peak, Specialized Bicycle Components, SRAM, and Toad&Co.
The companies shared that they are "at the front lines of the fight against climate change because of supply chain disruptions, the shifting consumer environment, and the impact of extreme weather events on the American outdoor experience."
The letter highlights the outdoor industry's support for several core components of the President's climate agenda, including:

A Civilian Climate Corps to bring jobs to local communities and mitigate the impacts of devastating wildfires and droughts;

The Clean Electricity Performance Program and funding for electric vehicle and electric bicycle infrastructure, to advance clean energy and a healthy environment;

And investments in natural climate solutions to increase resilience, workforce training and transition support for energy communities, and access to outdoor spaces for traditionally underserved communities.

This outpouring of support from the outdoor industry follows announcements from other U.S. companies. Major corporations that have stepped forward including Salesforce, Netflix, and General Motors. In addition, more than 1,000 business leaders have stepped forward to express their support for climate action via reconciliation in letters organized by the American Sustainable Business Council (ASBC), E2 (Environmental Entrepreneurs), and Clean Energy for America (CE4A). Walmart announced that it is "encouraged by the many climate-related policy proposals being debated by Congress, including proposals made through budget reconciliation and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act."
  