
    Mr. President, I want to thank you, your Government, the people of China, and the people—Hangzhou—for the excellent accommodations and what I am sure will be a productive G-20 summit. Our meeting here is an opportunity to discuss the breadth and importance of the U.S.-China relationship. As you indicated, the event that we just came from in which we deposited our ratification of the Paris Agreement is just one example of what can happen when our two countries work effectively together.
I know that at the G-20, we're committed to working with other countries to build sustainable, inclusive economies and create opportunities for all of our people. In joining the Paris Agreement today, we're demonstrating our shared commitment to climate change. I look forward to an extensive discussion on our shared interests in advancing regional and global security, from the Korean Peninsula to the fight against ISIL. We very much welcome China's contributions to global development, peacekeeping, and refugee assistance.
And because of the hard work of our teams, across every dimension—from people-to-people ties, energy, scientific, and educational exchanges—we have seen steady progress during the course of my Presidency and during the course of the multiple meetings that you and I have had. Consistent with the notion of a new model for relations between our countries, what I think we've been able to achieve is practical and constructive efforts where our interests intersect and a candid discussion of those areas where we differ and our ability to manage them in a way that does not put the bilateral relationship at risk. And I know that we will have, once again, candid conversations about some of those differences around issues like human rights or cyber or maritime. But our teams have been engaged. They have worked very well and diligently together.
And so I want to thank not only you, Mr. President, but also your entire Government for the constructive way in which we have worked in preparation for this meeting. And I'm absolutely committed to ensuring not only that this is a productive meeting, but that we're also setting the stage so that the next U.S. administration comes in with a relationship that is on a strong and productive footing.
So thank you very much.
  