
    On Thursday, September 30, 2010, the President signed into law:
H.R. 1445, the “Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp Act of 2010,” which directs the United States Postal Service to issue and sell, at a premium, a Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp;
H.R. 3562, which designates a federally occupied building as the James Chaney, Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner, and Roy K. Moore Federal Building;
H.R. 3940, which delays the minimum wage increases scheduled to take effect in American Samoa and in the Commonwealth of the Marianas Islands;
H.R. 3978, the “First Responder Anti-Terrorism Training Resources Act,” which authorizes the Department of Homeland Security to accept and use gifts to the Department’s Center for Domestic Preparedness for first responder terrorism preparedness and response training;
H.R. 4505, which allows State homes constructed with VA grants to provide nursing home care to parents of children who died while serving in the Armed Forces;
H.R. 4667, the “Veterans’ Compensation Cost-of-Living Adjustment Act of 2010,” which provides for a cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) for the beneficiaries of veterans’ disability compensation and dependency and indemnity compensation equal to the Social Security COLA;
H.R. 5682, which allows active duty members of the Armed Forces who are assigned to a congressional liaison office to use the House of Representative exercise facility; establishes a revolving fund in the Treasury for the House of Representatives Child Care Center; and makes the Chief Administrative Officer of the House responsible for House furniture;
H.R. 6190, the “Airport and Airway Extension Act of 2010, Part III,” which extends through December 31, 2010, authorities to collect taxes that fund the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, make expenditures from the Airport and Airway Trust Fund, and make grants to airports under the Airport Improvement Program;
S. 3814, the “National Flood Insurance Program Reextension Act of 2010,” which authorizes the Federal Emergency Management Agency to enter into new contracts for flood insurance under the National Flood Insurance Program and to borrow from the Treasury under the Program through September 30, 2011; and
S. 3839, which extends the authorizations of certain Small Business Administration programs until January 31, 2011.
  