
    Jorge L. Arrizurieta, of Florida, to be United States Alternate Executive Director of the Inter-American Development Bank, vice Lawrence Harrington.
Daniel G. Bogden, of Nevada, to be United States Attorney for the District of Nevada for the term of four years, vice Kathryn E. Landreth, resigned.
Mary Beth Buchanan, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania for the term of four years, vice Harry Litman, resigned.
Jeffrey Gilbert Collins, of Michigan, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Michigan for the term of four years, vice Saul A. Green, resigned.
Steven M. Colloton, of Iowa, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Iowa for the term of four years, vice Don Carlos Nickerson, resigned.
Thomas M. DiBiagio, of Maryland, to be United States Attorney for the District of Maryland for the term of four years, vice Lynne Ann Battaglia, resigned.
William S. Duffey, Jr., of Georgia, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Richard H. Deane, Jr.
Peter W. Hall, of Vermont, to be United States Attorney for the District of Vermont for the term of four years, vice Charles Robert Tetzlaff, resigned.
Thomas E. Johnston, of West Virginia, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of West Virginia for the term of four years, vice Melvin W. Kahle, resigned.
Edward Hachiro Kubo, Jr., of Hawaii, to be United States Attorney for the District of Hawaii for the term of four years, vice Steven Scott Alm, resigned.
Gregory Gordon Lockhart, of Ohio, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Ohio for the term of four years, vice Sharon J. Zealey, resigned.
Sheldon J. Sperling, of Oklahoma, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Oklahoma for the term of four years, vice Robert Bruce Green, resigned.
Donald W. Washington, of Louisiana, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana for the term of four years, vice Michael David Skinner, resigned.
Maxwell Wood, of Georgia, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Georgia for the term of four years, vice Beverly Baldwin Martin, resigned.
  