
    
  Jindal Challenges Secretary Clinton to Healthcare Debate

BATON ROUGE – According to a report in The Washington Post, Secretary Hillary Clinton is preparing to double down on her support for ObamaCare with a series of campaign events across the country.
Secretary Clinton's first stop on her socialized medicine tour is today in Louisiana, where Governor Bobby Jindal has rejected the expansion of ObamaCare in the state because it would put more people on a poorly-run government healthcare system, take away freedom from people, and bust the budget.
Governor Jindal said, "As Secretary Clinton seeks to distract the voters from her e-mail scandal, she is coming to Louisiana to lecture us about the need for bigger government and socialism. Louisianians, and people across America, will not be fooled.
"After all, Secretary Clinton is the godmother of socialized medicine. The government takeover of our healthcare system started with HillaryCare in the 1990's.
"Obamacare was sold to the American people based on lies that it would improve quality and lower costs. It has done none of that and needs to be repealed. Secretary Clinton started spouting these same lies two decades ago so I am sure she will have no problem continuing to market ObamaCare the same way President Obama did.
"I have a plan that repeals Obamacare and replaces it with something that preserves freedom, empowers patients, lowers costs and reduces the role of both federal government and insurance company bureaucrats.
"Instead of battling through press releases though, I have an idea for Hillary Clinton, let's have a debate about healthcare. Instead of the carefully controlled campaign events that Secretary Clinton prefers, let's give the American people a real live discussion.
"I know Secretary Clinton doesn't like to take real questions, and if she is worried, I am even willing to spot her some help. For support, Secretary Clinton can even bring the frontrunner in her party, avowed socialist Bernie Sanders, if she needs any help with why she believes socialized medicine is the future."
Note: Governor Jindal is a healthcare policy expert. He ran the Louisiana's Department of Health and Hospitals, was Assistant Secretary at the U.S. Department of Health and Human services, and was the Executive Director of the National Bipartisan Commission on the Future of Medicare
  