
    The White House today announced the recipients of the 2003 Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, the nation's highest honor for professionals at the outset of their independent research careers. Fifty-seven researchers will be honored today in a ceremony presided over by John H. Marburger III, Science Advisor to the President and Director of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. The White House will webcast the event live at 3:00 p.m. today from the White House website at www.whitehouse.gov/live.v.ram.
The Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, established in 1996, honors the most promising beginning researchers in the nation within their fields. Eight federal departments and agencies annually nominate scientists and engineers at the start of their careers whose work shows the greatest promise to benefit the nominating agency's mission. Participating agencies award these beginning scientists and engineers up to five years of funding to further their research in support of critical government missions.
The recipients of the 2003 Presidential Early Career Awards for Scientists and Engineers, along with their nominating federal department or agency are:
Department of Agriculture

Timothy E. Link, University of Idaho
Curtis P. Van Tassell, Agricultural Research Service
Patrick A. Zollner, Forest Service North Central Research Station

Department of Commerce

Sim D. Aberson, Atlantic Oceanographic and Meteorological Laboratory
Scott A. Diddams, National Institute of Standards and Technology
Jon R. Pratt, National Institute of Standards and Technology
Kyle W. Shertzer, Southeast Fisheries Science Center

Department of Defense

Brian P. Anderson, University of Arizona
Vladimir Bulovic, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Rustem F. Ismagilov, University of Chicago
Lyon B. King, Michigan Technological University
Christopher A. Schuh, Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Moe Z. Win, Massachusetts Institute of Technology

Department of Energy

Tamara G. Kolda, Sandia National Laboratories
Saskia Mioduszewski, Brookhaven National Laboratory
Jian Shen, Oak Ridge National Laboratory
Catherine M. Snelson, University of Nevada
Margaret S. Torn, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
Donald P. Vasco, Jr., Tennessee Technological University
Brian D. Wirth, University of California , Berkeley

Department of Health and Human Services: National Institutes of Health

Matthew I. Banks, University of Wisconsin-Madison
Leonardo Belluscio, National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke
Linzhao Cheng, Johns Hopkins University
William DeBello, University of California , Davis
Michael B. Eisen, University of California , Berkeley
Stuart Forman, Massachusetts General Hospital
Peter D. Kwong, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases
Anne M. Moon, University of Utah
Sean J. Morrison, University of Michigan
Steven D. Munger, University of Maryland School of Medicine
Stephanie B. Seminara, Harvard Medical School
Brian D. Strahl, University of North Carolina , Chapel Hill

Department of Veterans Affairs

Steven M. Asch, Los Angeles Veterans Health Services
Albert C. Lo, West Haven Veterans Administration

National Aeronautics and Space Administration

Stuart D. Bale, University of California , Berkeley
Carlos Del Castillo, Stennis Space Center
Sarah Stewart-Mukhopadhyay, Harvard University

National Science Foundation

Treena L. Arinzeh, New Jersey Institute of Technology
Paola Barbara, Georgetown University
Carla E. Caceres, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Harry J. Dankowicz, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Daniel R. Gamelin, University of Washington
Arjun M. Heimsath, Dartmouth College
Joseph Henrich, Emory University
Jennifer S. Lerner, Carnegie Mellon University
Yoky Matsuoka, Carnegie Mellon University
Roxana A. Moreno, University of New Mexico
Kara L. Nelson, University of California , Berkeley
Erica L. Plambeck, Stanford University
Carla Mattos, North Carolina State University
Juan G. Santiago, Stanford University
Cyrus Shahabi, University of Southern California
Sandeep K. Shukla, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University
Kimmen Sjölander, University of California , Berkeley
Elisabeth Smela, University of Maryland , College Park
Konstantina Trivisa, University of Maryland , College Park
Ravi D. Vakil, Stanford University

About the Office of Science and Technology Policy
Congress established OSTP in 1976 with a broad mandate to advise the President and others within the Executive Office of the President on the impacts of science and technology on domestic and international affairs. The 1976 Act also authorizes OSTP to lead an interagency effort to develop and to implement sound science and technology policies and budgets and to work with the private sector, state and local governments, the science and higher education communities, and other nations toward this end. The Director of OSTP serves as co-chair of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and oversees the National Science and Technology Council on behalf of the President. For more information visit www.ostp.gov.
  