
    Mitt Romney announced today that New Hampshire State Senator and Senate Finance Committee Chairman Chuck Morse (R-Salem) endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States. Senator Morse joins Senators Jack Barnes (R-Raymond), Jim Rausch (R-Derry) and Senate Majority Leader Jeb Bradley (R-Wolfeboro) in supporting Governor Romney.
"Chuck Morse has been a leader in the fight to cut spending, reduce taxes and limit government in the Granite State. Over the past year, he helped craft one of the most fiscally responsible state budgets in the country that has put New Hampshire on a path toward prosperity," said Mitt Romney. "I am proud to have his support and look forward to campaigning with him in the months ahead."
Announcing his support, Senator Morse said, "As a small business owner, I believe we need a fiscally conservative president who understands how the real economy works and how jobs are created. With over 25 years of experience in the private sector, Mitt Romney has the skills needed to turn around our struggling economy, get our exploding deficits under control and put people back to work. He is the right leader to confront the enormous challenges facing our country, and I am proud to support him."
Background On Chuck Morse:
Chuck Morse is the Chairman of the New Hampshire State Senate Finance Committee. He was elected in 2010 to represent Salem, Pelham, Atkinson and Plaistow after having previously served in the State Senate from 2002-2006 and two terms in the State House of Representatives. He was the 2006 Republican nominee for Executive Council in District 3. Morse is a small business owner, serving as the President of Freshwater Farms & Garden Center in Atkinson and Granite Creek Farms of Brentwood, and has also served Salem as its town moderator and selectman. In 1997, Morse received the Bill Brown Distinguished Business Person of the Year Award. He has also received the prestigious John P. Ganley award in recognition of his service to the community and for his support of the Salem Boys and Girls Club.
  