
    Iowans Weigh In: Kamala Harris Took the Fight to Trump & Showed How to Unify the Country
Tonight, Iowans across the state applauded Senator Kamala Harris' performance in the third Democratic debate, where she laid out her plans to deliver real, bold solutions for the challenges American families face and showed why she is the best candidate to prosecute the case against four more years of Donald Trump.
Harris took the fight to Trump and Republicans, and demonstrated that their division stops us from getting anything done – and that instead, we need to focus on the common problems that will win this election and unify the country. She spoke about issues in a way that all people can relate to – all people in all regions – from gun violence to trade to climate change.
Harris will return to Iowa in one week for a 3-day swing where she will visit Eastern and Central Iowa, with stops in Cedar Rapids, Waterloo, Cedar Falls, and Polk County. She will participate in the LGBTQ Candidate Forum sponsored by GLAAD, One Iowa, The Gazette, and The Advocate and the Polk County Democrats' Annual Steak Fry.
Here are some early reviews from caucusgoers, including some from 45 Harris debate watch parties across the state:
Penny Rosjford, Iowa Democratic Party State Central Committee member - "Thankful that Kamala reminded us who is really trying to take away our health care. When Donald Trump spent his first year trying to leave millions uninsured, he ignited women across this country to take charge fighting for our families. We have to continue to remind people who we are fighting, and she did just that."
Sue Dvorsky, former Iowa Democratic Party Chair, former school teacher, and National Education Association activist - "Tonight the whole country can see what we've seen in Iowa already. Kamala Harris is whip smart, thoughtful and ready on Day One. #ForThePeople"
Kyrstin Delagardelle, Des Moines School Board Member and teacher librarian - "Senator Harris understands the commitment teachers make to their students and communities and wants to value that with her plan to increase teacher pay. HBCU's teacher education programs need unprecedented investment to grow teachers of color across the country. All of our students deserve the best teachers and Sen. Harris's plans would support growing enrollment among teachers of color to promote more teachers who look like their students in the short term and provide something to build on for generations to come."
Jean Hessburg, Iowa Democratic Party Women's Caucus Chair - "We can change our behaviors" Kamala again proves this isn't esoteric discussion- it's plain; there's a plan; yes we can @KamalaHarris #DemocraticDebate #IACaucus #ForThePeople
Alex Watters, Sioux City City Councilmember and Disability Advocate - "Thank you @KamalaHarris for talking about @realDonaldTrump undermining the #ACA with taking away pre-existing conditions. #ForThePeople"
Ruby Bodeker, Vinton, IA - "I have heard countless Iowans say when it comes down to it, what they really want in a presidential nominee is someone who talks about beating Trump. @KamalaHarris is all over that tonight b/c she has the skill set to do just that. Game, set, match ✓ #ForThePeople #IACaucus"
Avery Fair, High School Kamala Captain, Dubuque, IA - "She got asked the tough questions, but she set the record straight and proved again how strong she is. She is the best person to beat Donald Trump."
Paul Dayton, Urbandale, IA - "Anybody can knock on the door for change from outside of the system. Kamala decided to work on the inside, so that when people knocked for change, she could open the door for them. There is no one better to bring respect back to the presidency and to the United States.
Angela Neira, Davenport, IA - "Kamala listens – you can't be a successful prosecutor without being a great listener. The very opposite of Trump. She thinks fast on her feet. She's tough, smart and exudes the requirements of the Oval Office."
Matthew Langbecker, Ankeny, IA - "Feeling empowered and encouraged by Kamala tonight. She is very articulate and relatable."
Linda Peters, Perry, IA - "She's knowledgeable, and she's lived through a lot of the challenges we face. She knows what she's talking about."
Michael Dunagan, Mason City, IA - "Number one, I think she is the most likeable candidate we have in a field of many, many people, I think she has the most talent, I think she has the best vision, and I think the country is ready for a woman president."
John Gross, Iowa City, IA - "Senator Harris has such a controlled energy. She'd be such a threat to Donald Trump."
Kristen Little, West Des Moines, IA - "She is smart, very articulate, and strong. Her experience as Attorney General has given her insight into the inner workings of the government. She is interested in working for the betterment of the United States."
Gary Connors-Boe, Cedar Rapids, IA - "In primaries, candidates run to the left, and in the general they run to the center. Harris doesn't have to do that – her message is progressive, and it works for everyone."
Renee, Cedar Rapids, IA - "That really small dude can turn back to Fox and stop tweeting out ammunition. My girl is on tonight."
Luisita Thompson, Urbandale, IA - "She is the one that can beat Donald Trump. She just makes me feel like it's real."
Tommy Leon, Carroll, IA - "I'd pay a lot of money to watch her debate Trump. She's brilliant."
  