
    I WOULD very much rather be giving you this greeting in person than on film. It has been far too long since I have had a chance to meet with you and your organization.
I well remember that 1968 conference in Los Angeles when you asked me to discuss the legislative plans of the newly elected Republican administration. A lot has happened since then.
And unpredictable as the future can be, I can tell you one thing for sure about my new job. To the very best of my ability to make it so, this will be an open Administration, and that means open to all newsmen.
You and your organization can perform a very vital service for those of us in government through your questions and your reports.
We get a wealth of information fed back to us about what people are thinking, what their concerns are, and their hopes and aspirations. And this is even more important to me as President than it has been in the past.
The members of your organization know so well the communities and the people they serve. Over the years I was able to pay particular attention to the work of two of your members, the late Dick Cheverton at WOTV, and that of Jack Hogan at WZZM-TV, both stations in Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Their work and their involvement in the community problems and projects provide eloquent testimony to the dedication of your members.
I believe the news media's concern with community affairs is vitally important. Half jokingly, I have urged Washington correspondents to go back to their hometowns occasionally, for 6 months or so each year, to get reacquainted with what the people are thinking and doing.
By the same token, I suggest it might be profitable for you who work outside Washington to spend a few months in our Capital every so often. We all would benefit from such an exchange of ideas, attitudes, and experiences.
As you may know, most of our White House press staff are experienced journalists. One of them, Bill Roberts, served as president of your organization. I know that to the best of their abilities they will do what they can to help you.
And while some people say that government and the news media are in a sense adversaries, I hope we can always remain friendly adversaries.
I trust your conference will prove stimulating and professionally helpful. I congratulate your president, Tom Frawley, on completion of a successful year, and wish your new president and officers well in meeting and surmounting the challenges and the concerns of the broadcast journalists.
Thank you very much.
  