
    Dear Mr. Speaker: (Dear Mr. Chairman ; )
In accordance with the provisions of Public Law 95-384, I am submitting the following report on progress made during the past 60 days toward a negotiated settlement of the Cyprus problem.
Intercommunal talks between the Greek and Turkish Cypriots resumed in Nicosia on August 9 under the auspices of Ambassador Hugo Gobbi, the Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary General on Cyprus. At the August 9 session, Ambassador Gobbi read a statement outlining the Secretary General's understanding of the common ground between the parties and the matters which will be discussed in the negotiations. (A copy of the opening statement is attached. )
The parties agreed to meet on a weekly basis with the following major subjects to be dealt with in rotation:
(A) Reaching agreement on the resettlement of Varosha under United Nations auspices;
(B) Initial practical measures to promote goodwill, mutual confidence and normal conditions;
(C) Constitutional aspects;
(D) Territorial aspects.
The first substantive meeting was held September 16 to address the issue of Varosha. The meeting was characterized as having been a good beginning on this issue. The negotiations will return to this topic after having dealt in turn with the other three major subjects noted above in weekly sessions. The next meeting will take place on September 24.
I welcome the resumption of the Cyprus intercommunal talks. The painstaking efforts of the Secretary General and United Nations' Secretariat officials are to be commended. We hope that the resumed talks will be conducted on a serious, sustained and productive basis and will lead to a just and lasting settlement of all outstanding issues.
Sincerely,
JIMMY CARTER
OPENING STATEMENT AT INTERCOMMUNAL TALKS BY AMBASSADOR HUGO GOBBI
August 9, 1980
I note that both parties have indicated their readiness to resume the intercommunal talks, which were recessed in consultation with the parties on 22 June 1979, and to do so within the framework of the good offices mission entrusted to me by the Security Council and on the basis of the high-level agreements of 12 February 1977 and 19 May 1979.
Both parties have, in this regard, signified their intention to carry out the resumed talks in a continuing and sustained manner, to get down to concrete negotiations, discussing constructively, and giving full consideration to, all aspects of the Cyprus problem.
In this connection, I should like to outline the Secretary General's understanding of the common ground that was worked out in the course of consultations which took place over the past several months:
(A) Both parties have reaffirmed the validity of the high-level agreements of 12 February 1977 and 19 May 1979;
(B) Both parties have reaffirmed their support for a federal solution of the constitutional aspect and a bizonal solution of the territorial aspect of the Cyprus problem;
(c) Both parties have indicated that the matter of security can be raised and discussed in the intercommunal talks. It is understood that this matter will be discussed, having regard to certain practical difficulties which may arise for the Turkish Cypriot community, as well as to the security of Cyprus as a whole;
(D) Both parties have appealed to the Secretary General for the continuation of the intercommunal talks.
The practical implementation of the concepts in (B) and (c) above will be dealt with in the context of the substantive consideration of the constitutional and territorial aspects and will be reflected in the substantive positions and proposals of the parties concerning the various items of the agenda.
Concerning the matters to be discussed, the Secretary General understands, on the basis of the 19 May agreement, that these will include the following subjects:
(A) Reaching agreement on the resettlement of Varosha under United Nations auspices, in accordance with the provisions of point 5 of the 19 May agreement;
(B) Initial practical measures by both sides to promote goodwill, mutual confidence and the return to normal conditions, in accordance with the provisions of point 6, which states that special importance will be given to this matter;
(C) Constitutional aspects;
(D) Territorial aspects.
Concerning procedure, it is understood that the four items above should be dealt with concurrently in rotation at consecutive meetings. At an appropriate early stage, committees or working groups will be set up by the interlocutors
  