
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(House Rules)(Rep. McBath, D-GA, and 83 cosponsors)
The Administration strongly supports House passage of H.R. 2119, the Family Violence Prevention and Services Improvement Act of 2021. Congress first enacted the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act (FVPSA) in 1984 to provide resources to address domestic violence as a public health issue and to support life-saving services and prevention programs throughout the nation. FVPSA, last reauthorized in 2010, allocates funding to states and territories that reaches over 1,500 domestic violence shelters and services programs, as well as funding for over 240 tribes and tribal organizations, to address and prevent domestic violence and dating violence. FVPSA also provides funding for a network of state and territorial domestic violence coalitions, the National Domestic Violence Hotline, and national technical assistance providers that provide training and capacity building to ensure that vital services and support are available to individuals experiencing domestic violence and their children. Additionally, FVPSA funds the DELTA program, which provides funds to design, implement, and evaluate innovative domestic violence and dating violence prevention models.
As a result of FVPSA funding, each year approximately 1.3 million survivors receive critical services such as emergency shelter, crisis counseling, safety planning, assistance in seeking an order of protection, and assistance recovering from financial abuse and addressing housing insecurity. Nonetheless, research demonstrates that the need for services continues to outpace availability and many survivors are unable to access critical services and support. Furthermore, the COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated economic insecurity, increased isolation, and compounded barriers faced by victims and survivors in seeking safety and stability, particularly for those from historically marginalized communities.
H.R. 2119 is a bipartisan bill that will authorize increased funding to strengthen existing services while expanding access to tribes and tribal coalitions, culturally-specific programs, and other underserved communities. It will also expand investments in domestic violence prevention by increasing support for existing evidence-based, community projects and by funding new initiatives to reach more communities nationwide. The Administration urges swift passage of this legislation.
  