
    Pool Reports by Aishvarya Kavi, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 26, 202208:12

Travel pool report 1 - Checking in
Good morning from Wilmington, it's 57 degrees and sunny. Pool has been swept and is gathered near the Biden residence.
POTUS is returning to Washington this morning. His departure is scheduled for 9:25am. Here's the full schedule:
9:25 AM THE PRESIDENT departs New Castle, Delaware en route Washington, D.C.Delaware Air National Guard BaseOut-of-Town Pool
10:25 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Fort Lesley J. McNair en route the White HouseFort Lesley J. McNairIn-Town Travel Pool
10:35 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT welcomes the Atlanta Braves to the White HouseEast RoomPre-Credentialed Media (Gather 11:30 AM — Palm Room Doors)
4:15 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks at the third meeting of the White House Competition Council highlighting the significant progress made on the competition agenda in the last year and previewing new actions that will save families money and lower costsState Dining RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 4:05 PM — Palm Room Doors)



September 26, 202209:20

Travel pool report 2 - Rolling to DANG
The motorcade pulled away from the Biden residence at 9:19am.



September 26, 202209:36

Travel pool report 3 - Departure from DANG
The motorcade arrived on the tarmac at 9:27am. Pool was stationed too far away for shouted questions. We didn't see Marine One lift off as we were ushered to our Osprey. Will be taking off shortly.
From the WH:
Motorcading with the President en route Delaware Air National Guard Base and Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route Fort Lesley J. McNair:

Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor

Handing off to in-town pool. Thanks all!




 
Pool Reports below by Matt Viser, The Washington Post 



Sent:
Reports:




September 26, 202209:41

In town pool report #1
Taking the hand-off from out of town pooler Aishvarya Kavi, who just reported POTUS' departure from Wilmington.
Greetings from Washington on a sunny, clear blue-skied Monday, where the White House this morning is scheduled to welcome the Atlanta Braves.
The in-town pool arrived a bit ago to Ft McNair to meet POTUS as he returns from Wilmington. He's scheduled here for a 10:25am arrival, and appears close to on schedule.
This should be in your inbox but for those who need a reminder of what your day, and mine — and POTUS' — have in store.
9:25 AM THE PRESIDENT departs New Castle, Delaware en route Washington, D.C.
Delaware Air National Guard BaseOut-of-Town Pool
10:25 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Fort Lesley J. McNair en route the White HouseFort Lesley J. McNairIn-Town Travel Pool
10:35 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth GroundsIn-Town Travel Pool
11:45 AM THE PRESIDENT welcomes the Atlanta Braves to the White HouseEast RoomPre-Credentialed Media (Gather 11:30 AM — Palm Room Doors)
4:15 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks at the third meeting of the White House Competition Council highlighting the significant progress made on the competition agenda in the last year and previewing new actions that will save families money and lower costsState Dining RoomIn-House Pool Spray (Gather 4:05 PM — Palm Room Doors)



September 26, 202210:36

Pool report #2 / POTUS landed
Marine One landed at Ft McNair, on a large patch of grass with the National War College in the background, at 10:27am
POTUS walked across the grass, briefly nodding toward the pool nearby but not coming over to talk, before getting into the Beast.
According to the WH, greeting the President on arrival at Fort Lesley J. McNair:

Colonel David Bowling, Commander, Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall

We are now rolling back to the White House, where the Atlanta Braves await.



September 26, 202210:49

Pool report #3 / arrival at WH
POTUS arrived at the White House at 10:44am, after a brief 10-minute motorcade from Ft McNair. A few onlookers along the way waving and taking photos, and a few holding signs as the motorcade pulled into the White House that read: "Bring Ridge Home"
Upon arrival, pool could see at a distance as POTUS walked to the Oval Office.
According to the White House, motorcading with the President en route the White House:

Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor




September 26, 202211:07

Pool report #4 / Briefing now 1:15pm
WH advises that the press briefing, originally slated for 1:30pm, will now start 15 minutes earlier, at 1:15pm.



September 26, 202211:42

Pool report #5 / Atlanta Braves
We have gathered in a packed East Room, where POTUS is soon expected to honor the Atlanta Braves, winners of the 2021 World Series.
Light jazz was playing when we arrived, and the Commissioner's Trophy was on a table at the front. A jersey — which, given past events, may be one given to POTUS by the team — is folded on a second table.
Event is streaming, so feel free to follow along and pool will send along any highlights.



September 26, 202212:33

Pool report #6 / Atlanta Braves event
POTUS began with a joke about FLOTUS and her allegiance to the Philadelphia Phillies – and laughed that he couldn't be too nice to the team. He remarked on their improbable comebacks and alluded to his political career and own comebacks. "I know something about being counted out," he said.
At the end he was presented with a custom jersey with his name on the back and number 46.
According to the WH, attendees included players, owners, executives and staff, as well as state and local elected leaders:

Rep. Carolyn Bourdeaux (GA-07)
Rep. Nikema Williams (GA-05)
Rep. Earl Leroy "Buddy" Carter (GA-01)
Senator John Hickenlooper (CO)
Mayor Andre Dickens, Atlanta

Your pooler also spotted Kate Bedingfield, Georgia native and White House communications director, sporting a Braves cap in the back of the room.
Former Atlanta Keisha Lance Bottoms, who now oversees the White House Office of Public Engagement, was also mentioned as being in attendance, and helping to put together the event.
POTUS was accompanied into the room by Terry McGuirk, Chairman and CEO of the Atlanta Braves. They were preceded by the team, who came in and stood on rises. The list of players, according to the WH, included:

Jose Yepez, Bullpen Catcher
Jordan Wolf, Assistant Conditioning Coach
Nick Valencia, Assistant Physical Therapist
Jose Castro, Assistant Hitting Coach
Drew French, Bullpen Coach
Robert "Bobby" Magallanes, Hitting Coach
Walt Weiss, Bench Coach
Kevin Seitzer, Hitting Coach
Rick Kranitz, Pitching Coach
Ian Anderson, Pitcher
Dylan Lee, Pitcher
Luke Jackson, Pitcher
Kyle Wright, Pitcher
AJ Minter, Pitcher
Dansby Swanson, Shortstop
Travis d'Arnaud, Catcher
Eddie Rosario, Left Fielder
Max Fried, Pitcher
Austin Riley, Third Baseman
Tyler Matzek, Pitcher
Ozzie Albies, Second Baseman
Jessie Chavez, Pitcher
Adam Duvall, Outfielder
Charlie Morton, Pitcher
Ehire Adrianza, Shortstop
William Contreras, Catcher
Guillermo Heredia, Outfielder
Eric Young, Sr., First Base Coach
Sal Fasano, Catching Coach
Ron Washington, Third Base Coach
Eddie Perez, Major League Coach
Tomas Perez, Batting Practice Pitcher
Jim Leo, Bullpen Catcher
Brad Scott, Head Conditioning Coach
Jeff Stevenson, Assistant Athletic Trainer
George Poulis, Head Athletic Trainer
Calvin Minasian, Director of Equipment
Derek Schiller, CEO and President
Alex Anthopoulos, President of Baseball Operations and General Manager
Brian Snitker , Manager
Terry McGuirk, Chairman and CEO

At the conclusion of the event, around 12:20pm, POTUS invited the team to a reception.



September 26, 202213:25

Pool report #7 / 2 min warning to briefing
It's available in all your normal viewing venues.



September 26, 202214:44

Pool report #8 / Lunch lid until 3:30pm
We have a lunch lid until 3:30pm, which ends just ahead of POTUS remarks at the meeting of the White House Competition Council. Those remarks, which at the moment are the last item on the public schedule, are expected at 4:15pm.



September 26, 202216:19

Pool report #9 / gathered for pool spray
Pool has gathered for what is expected to be a brief pool spray as POTUS gives remarks at the top of the White House Competition Council Meeting.



September 26, 202217:18

Pool report #10 / pool spray
The pool was in the State Dining room for about 12 minutes as POTUS delivered remarks about efforts to increase competition and attempt to lower fees for consumers.
He ignored repeated questions on various topics at the end, as wranglers attempted to get reporters to leave. Some reporters were pushed as the wranglers tried to stifle their questions and get them out of the room.
When we arrived, POTUS was at the center of the table, with administration officials all around (more on attendees below). He made sure the pool was set, thanked his team ("I know a few folks were unable to join us today because of Rosh Hashanah and I'd like to wish a happy holiday to all those who are celebrating"), and then spoke to "a moment of global uncertainty. Countries around the world are grappling with elevated inflation, the ongoing war in Ukraine is presenting challenges."
"The United States of America is in stronger position than any other country to navigate these global challenges," he said. "Period."
POTUS coughed a number of times through his remarks, at one point saying, "Excuse me for the cold."
He talked about how his primary focus is lowering prices and easing the financial burden on middle class families, and he touted how gas prices had gone down, and had a message for gas companies: "My message is simple…Bring down the prices you're charging at the pump. Do it now…Not a month from now, do it now."
He said that he was tasking his council to come up with ways to encourage competition and lower fees. He focused in particular on various fees, citing overdraft fees from banks and termination fees from cell phone companies. "This council is going to come back to me...with a plan for eliminating and reducing fees. Families shouldn't have to pay these fees," he said.
He also discussed airline fees, and some of the success in getting airlines to change policies as a result of public pressure from Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg.
"They cancel on you and you have to pay a fee to rebook. C'mon man," Biden said. "No really. It's simply not fair. It's not fair."
He said new rules from the Department of Transportation would get airlines to disclose the fees up front, including fees for sitting next to your child or baggage fees, so that customers can have fuller knowledge when making decisions.
"Capitalism without competition isn't capitalism," he said toward the end of his remarks. "It's exploitation. And we're building an economy that works for everyone."
Via the WH, in attendance for the White House Competition Council Meeting:

Lloyd Austin, Secretary of Defense
Tom Vilsack, Secretary of Agriculture
Xavier Becerra, Secretary of Health and Human Services
Pete Buttigieg, Secretary of Transportation
Shalanda Young, Director of the Office of Management and Budget
Cecilia Rouse, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers
Wally Adeyemo, Deputy Secretary of the Treasury
Lisa Monaco, Deputy Attorney General
Julie Su, Deputy Secretary of Labor
Rohit Chopra, Director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
Lina Khan, Chair of the Federal Trade Commission
Marty Oberman, Chair of the Surface Transportation Board
Daniel Maffei, Chair of the Federal Maritime Commission
Rostin Behnam, Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
Brian Deese, Director of the National Economic Council
Kathi Vidal, Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office
Amanda Fischer, Senior Counselor at the Securities and Exchange Commission

Virtual Attendees:

Jessica Rosenworcel, Chair of the Federal Communications Commission




September 26, 202217:21

Pool report #11 / lid
We have a lid from the WH for the day.
Enjoy the evening!




  