
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee announced today former California Governor Pete Wilson has endorsed Rudy Giuliani for President. Wilson, whose public service in California ranged from serving as Mayor of San Diego to U.S. Senator to two-term Governor, is the latest in a strong delegation of support for Giuliani in California.
Wilson is currently a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution at Stanford University. Similar to Rudy Giuliani's accomplishments as New York City Mayor, Wilson gained prominence by revitalizing San Diego in his eleven years as Mayor. In San Diego, Wilson declared an increased emphasis on public safety and held the city government accountable.
"The Republican Party is fortunate to have Rudy Giuliani as a candidate. Rudy's executive experience and record of results in New York are unmatched," said Governor Wilson. "Rudy has proven he is the leader and the problem solver this country needs as President, and he is the Republican's best opportunity to win the general election because of that."
"Pete Wilson's accomplishments in virtually all levels of government in California prove that common sense governing is key to success in public service," said Mayor Giuliani. "Pete will be an excellent advocate for our campaign and I am grateful to have his support."
About Governor Pete Wilson:
Wilson is a distinguished visiting fellow at the Hoover Institution. He served as the thirty-sixth governor of California (1991-1999), eight years as a United States Senator (1983-1991), eleven years as Mayor of San Diego (1971-1983), and five years as a California State Assemblyman (1967-1971).
In the U.S. Senate, Wilson served as a member of the Senate Armed Services Committee and became a leading voice on national defense and U.S. foreign policy.
Wilson attended Yale University and served three years as a United States Marine Corps infantry officer. Upon completion of his military obligation, Wilson earned a law degree from the University of California, Berkeley.
  