
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 18
The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd, beginning on September 13 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 16 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in New Jersey and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 16 and continuing.
The President declared an emergency in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 16 and continuing.
September 19
The President declared a major disaster in New York and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 16 and continuing.
September 20
In the morning, the President traveled to Raleigh, NC, where he was briefed by Gov. James B. Hunt, Jr., at the airport. In the afternoon, he traveled to Tarboro, NC, where he toured areas damaged by Hurricane Floyd. Later, the President returned to Washington, DC.
September 21
In the morning, the President traveled to New York City, where he met separately with U.N. Secretary-General Kofi Annan and President Ismail Omar Guelleh of Djibouti at the United Nations.
In the afternoon, the President met separately with Prime Minister Mikulas Dzurinda of Slovakia, President Thabo Mbeki of South Africa, President Carlos Saul Menem of Argentina, President Andres Pastrana of Colombia, President Benjamin William Mkapa of Tanzania, and President Hugo Chaves Frias of Venezuela at the United Nations.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gregory A. Baer to be Assistant Secretary for Financial Markets at the Department of the Treasury.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ira Berlin and Evelyn Edson to be members of the National Council on the Humanities.
The President announced his intention to appoint David Berger, Lanny A. Breuer, and Nan H. Rich to the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
The President announced his intention to appoint William C. Oldaker as a member of the National Bioethics Advisory Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint W. Robert Connor as a member of the President's Committee on the Arts and the Humanities.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jeremy Bernard to the President's Advisory Committee on the Arts of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
The President announced the appointment of Alan Philip Larson as a member of the Board of Directors for the Overseas Private Investment Corporation.
The President declared a major disaster in South Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd, beginning on September 14 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Delaware and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 15-17.
September 22
The White House announced that President Olusegun Obasanjo of Nigeria will make an official working visit to Washington, DC, on October 28.
The President announced his intention to appoint Shirley J. Humphrey to the National Nutrition Monitoring Advisory Council.
The President declared a major disaster in Florida and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 13 and continuing.
The President declared a major disaster in Pennsylvania and ordered Federal aid to supplement Commonwealth and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe flash flooding associated with Tropical Depression Dennis on September 6-7.
The President declared a major disaster in New Mexico and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe storms and flooding on July 16-August 7.
September 23
The President announced his intention to nominate Skila Harris and Glenn L. McCullough, Jr., to be members of the Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley Authority.
The President announced his intention to nominate William A. Halter to be Deputy Commissioner of the Social Security Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Gerald V. Poje to be a member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board.
The President announced his intention to nominate J. Stapleton Roy to be Assistant Secretary for Intelligence and Research at the State Department.
The President declared a major disaster in Connecticut and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by high winds, heavy rains, and flooding associated with Tropical Storm Floyd on September 16 and continuing.
September 24
The White House announced that the President named Baltimore City Police Commissioner Thomas Frazier as Director of the Office of Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) at the Justice Department.
The President announced his intention to nominate A.J. Eggenberger and Jessie M. Roberson to be members of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
The President declared a major disaster in Maryland and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Floyd on September 16-20.
  