
    On September 15, 2006, President Bush authorized the Secretary of State to transmit to the Congress the annual report on the Major Drug Transit or Major Illicit Drug Producing Countries for Fiscal Year 2007. The report contains Presidential Determinations of the countries that have "failed demonstrably" to make substantial efforts during the previous 12 months to adhere to international counternarcotics agreements and to take measures specified in U.S. law.
In his report, the President identified as major drug transit or major illicit drug producing countries: Afghanistan, The Bahamas, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Laos, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela.
The President also reported to Congress his determination that Burma and Venezuela have "failed demonstrably" during the previous 12 months to adhere to their obligations under international counternarcotics agreements and to take the measures set forth in U.S. law. However, the President also determined to maintain U.S. programs that aid Venezuela's democratic institutions, establish select community development projects, and strengthen Venezuela's political party system.
The United States remains concerned about Bolivia's counternarcotics cooperation. Despite increased drug interdiction, Bolivia has undertaken policies that have allowed the expansion of coca cultivation and have significantly curtailed eradication. The United States will issue a set of substantive benchmarks for Bolivia and will conduct an interim assessment by March 2007.
These Determinations required the President to consider each country's performance in areas such as reducing illicit cultivation, interdiction, law enforcement cooperation, extradition, and measures to prevent and punish public corruption that facilitates drug trafficking or impedes drug-related prosecutions. The President also considered these countries' efforts to stop production and export of, and reduce the domestic demand for, illegal drugs.
  