
    Dear John:
It is with special gratitude for your contributions to the conduct of foreign policy that I accept with regret your resignation as Ambassador to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, effective November 7, 1983.
The remarkable dedication and purpose with which you have carried out your demanding duties as Ambassador have added singular luster to your distinguished career. The alliance today between the United States and Great Britain is adamantine and for that you are in no small part responsible. I know that you leave diplomatic service with the true respect and admiration of your colleagues at Embassy London and in the Foreign Office. To that I may only add my warm personal thanks for a job well done.
Nancy and I extend to you and Jo our heartfelt wishes for prosperity and happiness in the future. We look forward to your continued friendship in the years to come. Sincerely,
RONALD REAGAN
Dear Mr. President:
It is with deep regret that I tender my resignation as United States Ambassador to the Court of St. James effective November 7, 1983. I shall be returning to the United States, and to the business affairs and civic, educational and charitable work which had been my life until you honored me with this appointment in 1981.
I leave with a great sense of accomplishment. Anglo-American relations are excellent. Britain's support for alliance policies, and the effectiveness of our consultations, have allowed the United States and the United Kingdom to work together with renewed strength and enthusiasm for creative diplomacy. There is a refreshing candor in both official and personal contacts with Mrs. Thatcher's government. Our two countries have been effective partners in numerous initiatives all over the world, and our successes together have been important contributions to the search for peace and security. I am very proud of these achievements.
Mr. President, you have paid me the highest compliment, and the highest honor by appointing me as your personal representative at this post. My responsibilities here have been the most demanding, the most thrilling, and the most satisfying of my life; and I shall remain forever grateful to you for your trust.
Sincerely,
JOHN J. LOUIS, JR.,
Ambassador
  