
    Mr. President, Mrs. Fox, members of the Mexican delegation, distinguished guests: On behalf of the American people, it is my honor to welcome you to the United States.
Mexico is the first country I visited as President. Today it is my privilege to welcome President Fox for the first state visit of my administration. This is a recognition that the United States has no more important relationship in the world than the one we have with Mexico.
The starting point of a sound foreign policy is to build a stable and prosperous neighborhood with good relations amongst neighbors. Good neighbors work together and benefit from each other's successes.
Mr. President, you are a Mexican patriot with a great vision for a great people, a vision of justice and prosperity. Your election signaled a new birth of freedom for Mexico and set an example for the entire world. The United States is proud to stand beside you as your partner and as your friend.
Our nations have an historic opportunity to build an authentic partnership grounded in trust and in freedom. Since 1994, the Free Trade Agreement amongst our two countries and Canada has created millions of jobs and lifted millions of lives. NAFTA stands as a model for the benefits that are possible when trade is open and free. Today, our two nations are working together to extend the benefits of free trade throughout our hemisphere and throughout the world.
Our common interests, however, extend far beyond commerce. We value the cultural contributions each nation makes to each other. We treasure the family ties that bind so many millions of our citizens. We understand that the border we share is a vibrant region that unites us.
We understand that our two nations must work together in a spirit of respect and common purpose to seize opportunities and tackle challenges on the issues that affect the lives of our citizens, including migration, the environment, drugs, crime, corruption, and education. And both our Governments share a great project, a fully democratic Western Hemisphere that grows in prosperity and trades in freedom.
Some have described the century that just passed as the American Century. Now, we look forward. We have a chance to build a century of the Americas, in which all our people, north and south, find the blessings of liberty. This goal is worthy of our two great nations.
A Mexican proverb tells us that "Que tiene un buen vecino tiene un buen amigo." "He who has a good neighbor has a good friend." Today, both our countries are committed to being good neighbors and good friends. Friends deal in good faith and disagree with respect. Friends stick together in good times and in bad. Most of all, friends bring out the best in each other.
Today, Mexico and the United States are bringing out the best in each other in commerce, in culture, and in our shared commitment to democratic values. We're building a relationship that is unique in the world, a relationship of unprecedented closeness and cooperation. And this visit is a milestone on that journey.
President Fox, in February you welcomed me in your home in Guanajuato. Today Laura and I and the American people are honored to welcome you and Mrs. Fox to the Casa Blanca nuestro pais. [Laughter]
Thank you for coming.
  