
    Grand opening event to be held at Ann Arbor HQ
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign announced today the grand opening of its Michigan campaign headquarters located in Ann Arbor.
A grand opening celebration for the new office, which has already commenced operations, will take place on Thursday, September 22nd at the Michigan headquarters, located at 122 South Main Street, Suite 110-C, in Ann Arbor.
The event will feature a press conference followed by an all-day welcoming atmosphere for both volunteers and the at-large public. The afternoon will begin with a noon press conference and celebratory ribbon cutting, continue with an open house and volunteer registration, and conclude with a debate-watching party.
"We're pleased to establish a headquarters in Michigan, which stands to gain a lot from the pro-growth policies of a Ron Paul presidency. Ron Paul's message of Constitutionally-limited government, sound money and a traditional non-interventionist foreign policy is sure to win over Republican voters," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign has selected Adam de Angeli to coordinate efforts in the state. Mr. De Angeli worked for Dr. Paul's 2008 presidential bid, where he developed software for the campaign's precinct leadership program.
"Adam brings a lot to the table as an experienced political organizer as well as software developer. The tools he builds for Michigan may well be adapted for other state campaigns," said Dimitri Kesari, Ron Paul 2012 Deputy National Campaign Manager.
"The strategy in Michigan is simple: engage every supporter to engage every voter. We will recruit, equip, train, and mobilize volunteers across the state to win their precinct for Dr. Paul," de Angeli said.
"Ron Paul is the only candidate capable of building such a volunteer network, because Ron Paul is the only candidate whose message truly resonates with those who hear it."
The campaign urges all volunteers to sign up on www.ronpaul2012.com/mi.
Details of the event are as follows. All times Eastern.
Thursday, September 22, 2011
11:30 a.m. — Doors open, public welcome
12:00 p.m. — Ribbon cutting and press conference
12:30 p.m. — Open to the public and volunteers
6:00 p.m. — GOP debate-watching party
  