
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Catherine Todd Bailey, of Kentucky, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia. Ms. Bailey currently serves as President and Founder of Operation Open Arms, a charitable organization. Earlier in her career, she served as a public relations consultant for Creative Alliance. Prior to that position, Ms. Bailey served as a consultant for the American Bar Association. She earned her bachelor's degree from Franklin College.
The President intends to nominate Thomas V. Skinner, of Illinois, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (Enforcement and Compliance Assurance). Mr. Skinner currently serves as Acting Assistant Administrator in the Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance and as Regional Administrator (Region 5) at the EPA. He previously served as Director of the Illinois Environmental Protection Agency. Prior to joining the EPA, Mr. Skinner served on the Environmental Council of the States as Chair of the Air Committee and as a member of the Executive Committee. He earned his bachelor's degree from Lawrence University and his J.D. from Northwestern University.
The President intends to nominate Douglas Menarchik, of Texas, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development (Policy and Program Coordination). Dr. Menarchik currently serves as Director of The George Bush Presidential Library and Museum. He previously served as Director of The Center for the Defense Leadership and Management Program at the National Defense University. Earlier in his career, Dr. Menarchik taught at the George C. Marshall European Center for Security Studies in Garmisch, Germany. He earned his bachelor's degree from the United States Air Force Academy, his first master's degree and a Ph.D. from The George Washington University, and his second master's degree from Liberty University. Dr. Menarchik served over twenty-five years in the United States Air Force.
The President intends to nominate Howard J. Krongard, of New Jersey, to be Inspector General of the Department of State. Mr. Krongard currently serves as Of Counsel to Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer, an international law firm. He previously served as General Counsel for Deloitte & Touche. Earlier in his career, Mr. Krongard served as Associate General Counsel and Member of Peat Marwick Mitchell & Company. He earned his bachelor's degree from Princeton University and his J.D. from Harvard Law School.
The President intends to designate Daniel R. Levinson, of Maryland, to be Acting Inspector General at the Department of Health and Human Services. Mr. Levinson currently serves as Inspector General of the General Services Administration, where he previously served as Chief of Staff. Prior to joining the General Services Administration, Mr. Levinson maintained a private law practice. Earlier in his career, he was appointed Chairman of the Merit Systems Protection Board. Mr. Levinson earned his bachelor's degree from the University of Southern California, his master's degree from The George Washington University and his J.D. from Georgetown University.
  