
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Jean Nellie Liang of Illinois, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the remainder of a 14-year term expiring January 31, 2024.
Ms. Liang is a Senior Fellow in Economic Studies at the Brookings Institution and a Visiting Scholar at the International Monetary Fund's Monetary and Capital Markets Department. Previously, Ms. Liang served as Director of the Division of Financial Stability at the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. Ms. Liang is a member of the Congressional Budget Office's Panel of Economic Advisors and was a lecturer at the Yale School of Management. She earned her B.A. in economics from the University of Notre Dame and Ph.D. from the University of Maryland.
Jeffrey L. Eberhardt of Wisconsin, to be Special Representative of the President for Non- Proliferation, with the Rank of Ambassador.
Mr. Eberhardt is a career member of the Senior Executive Service and a retired U.S. Army officer. He is currently the Director of the Office of Multilateral and Nuclear Affairs in the Bureau of Arms Control, Verification and Compliance at the U.S. Department of State. Previously, Mr. Eberhardt served as a Foreign Affairs Officer in the Office of Nuclear Affairs, Bureau of Verification, Compliance, and Implementation, at the Department of State. He served as a Senior Military Advisor at the Pentagon, as a Foreign Area Officer with assignments in Europe and Asia, and was a Senior Fellow at the George Marshall Center in Garmisch, Germany and Battery Commander in Schweinfurt, Germany. Mr. Eberhardt speaks Russian. He earned his B.A. at the University of Wisconsin – Eau Claire and M.A. at the University of Washington in Seattle.
Darrell E. Issa of California, to be Director of the United States Trade and Development Agency.
Congressman Issa currently represents California's 49th Congressional District. In Congress, Issa served as Chair of the House Oversight Committee. Prior to his service in Congress, he spent time in the private sector as a small business owner, developing advanced technology solutions in manufacturing, development and global trade. Mr. Issa served as an officer in the U.S. Army and is a former chairman of the Consumer Electronics Association.
-----
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to
be Commissioners of the United States Parole Commission:

Virgil Madden of Indiana, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring December 12, 2022.
Monica David Morris of Florida, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring September 16, 2022.

  