
    
"Being commander in chief isn't the place for on-the-job training; it's a job for someone who has already proven his leadership skills - in battle, as a prisoner of war and during more than two decades on the floor of the Senate."-- Boston Herald
"McCain For President: A Certain Leader For Uncertain Times"
Editorial
Boston Herald September 30, 2008
Another sobering start to an exceedingly sobering week - but one which points to the need for a political leader who is steady in the face of crisis, mature in judgment and able to reach across the aisle to break the gridlock that has for too long gripped Washington.
That man is Sen. John McCain and at this critical moment in history, this paper is pleased to endorse his candidacy for president of the United States.
McCain won a lot of hearts and minds around here in 2000, and we can't help but wonder how history might have been different had he won his party's nomination and the White House back then.
But there is no going back. There is only the future and it is impossible to envision the future of this great nation being put in the hands of an articulate but inexperienced first-term senator from Illinois.
Being commander in chief isn't the place for on-the-job training; it's a job for someone who has already proven his leadership skills - in battle, as a prisoner of war and during more than two decades on the floor of the Senate.
John McCain's heroic resume isn't just about his sacrifice and his experience; it's about what he learned from those experiences. And on that issue his own words from "Faith of My Fathers" are telling:
"In Vietnam I had come to understand how brief a moment a life is. That discovery did not, however, make me overly fearful of time's brisk passing. For I had also learned that you can fill the moment with purpose and experiences that will make your life greater than the sum of its days. I have learned to acknowledge my failings and to recognize opportunities for redemption."
John McCain sought that purpose - and, yes, at times redemption - in public life and in public service. And that helps account for that independent streak that has often driven members of his own party slightly wild, but has endeared him to millions of American voters who, truth be told, usually put doing the right thing ahead of party too.
This Senate maverick has spent years forging coalitions - on campaign finance reform, immigration reform, on judicial nominations - all with the intent of getting things done in the toxically partisan world of Washington.
His efforts at budget reform, at controlling congressional earmarks - not just because taxpayers can no longer afford them, but because of the corrupting effect they have on the political process - have surely not endeared him to fellow Republicans. But McCain has never shied away from a good fight - on issues worth fighting for.
The economic future of this nation surely has to top the list of those issues right now.
Whatever becomes of the latest version of a bailout proposal, it is clear that this nation is in for years of economic uncertainty.
So who do we want to help guide us through that uncertainty?
McCain insisted during his Friday night debate with Barack Obama that "the first thing we need to do [post-bailout] is get spending under control in Washington.
"We've let government get completely out of control... the point is we need to examine every agency of government," he said, adding that cutting ethanol subsidies and doing away with Defense Department cost-plus contracts would top his list. And he'd support a spending freeze on everything but entitlement programs, defense and veterans benefits.
The most that Obama will concede is that some of the $800 billion in new spending programs he's proposing "are probably going to have to be delayed."
Then, of course, he reiterated all the things on his agenda that simply "have to" be done.
One thing is clear: John McCain has the courage to make those cuts; Barack Obama has no interest in doing so.
These are also times that demand experienced leadership in foreign affairs. When Russian troops invaded the sovereign democratic nation of Georgia, it took Obama three full days to figure it all out. Not so McCain, who immediately pinned the aggressor label on Russia.
And during Friday's debate McCain spoofed Obama's plan to have face to face talks with some of the world's tyrants, including Iran's Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, forcing us all to imagine the scenario:
"So let me get this right," McCain said. "We sit down with Ahmadinejad and he says, 'We're going to wipe Israel off the face of the Earth,' and we say, 'No, you're not?' Oh, please!"
There is no room for a naif in the Oval Office.
Being president is about policy and about getting that policy right.
But being president is also about character. During his decades of service to his country John McCain has given us all ample evidence of his courage, his character and his leadership. And never more has this nation needed a president with all that John McCain has to offer.
Read The Editorial
  