
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest television ad, entitled "Overseas." The ad highlights Barack Obama's agenda that opposes providing critical help to Michigan manufacturers that will save jobs. The ad will air in Michigan. 
VIEW THE AD HERE: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Rh1GOLylHek 
Script For "Overseas" (TV :30) 
ANNCR: Michigan manufacturing jobs are going overseas.
Barack Obama and his liberal allies are to blame.
When manufacturers needed help making health care more affordable, they voted no.
So jobs go overseas.
Help to reduce energy costs? No.
More jobs overseas.
Lower taxes? No.
Even more jobs overseas.
They don't understand.
Their votes cost Michigan jobs. 
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message. 
AD FACTS: Script For "Overseas" (TV :30) 
ANNCR: Michigan manufacturing jobs are going overseas. Barack Obama and his liberal allies are to blame. When manufacturers needed help making health care more affordable, they voted no. So jobs go overseas. 
As Of September 18, 2008 In The 110th Congress, Barack Obama Has Received A 11% Rating From The National Association Of Manufacturers. (National Association Of Manufacturers Website, www.bipac.net , Accessed 4/14/08) 
In The 109th Congress, Barack Obama Received A 16% Rating From The National Association Of Manufacturers. (National Association Of Manufacturers Website, www.bipac.net , Accessed 1/10/08) 
Barack Obama Voted Against A Bill That Could Help Manufacturers And Small Businesses With Health Care Costs. "Small Business Health Plans (Cloture Vote on S. 1955). Vote on a procedural motion to limit debate and move to final passage of S. 1955, legislation allowing well-established trade associations to offer affordable health insurance coverage to their members through Small Business Health Plans. Vote was 55-43, 5 shy of the 60 required under Senate rules to limit debate, on May 11, 2006 (Roll 119). The NAM supported the cloture motion and S. 1955, which would give small companies the flexibility they need to provide a broad range of insurance products to their employees." (The National Association Of Manufacturers, http://bipac.net , Accessed 9/18/08) 
ANNCR: Help to reduce energy costs? No. More jobs overseas. 
Barack Obama Opposes Lifting The Ban On Offshore Drilling. Obama: "The politics may have changed, but the facts haven't. The accuracy of Sen. McCain's original position has not changed: Offshore drilling would not lower gas prices today, it would not lower gas prices next year and it would not lower gas prices five years from now." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Press Availability, Jacksonville, FL, 6/20/08) 
Barack Obama Opposes Immediate Gas Tax Relief For American Families. Obama: "I think John McCain's proposal for a three month tax holiday is a bad idea." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Campaign Event, Blue Bell, PA, 4/21/08) 
Barack Obama Called John McCain's $300 Million Prize For A Better Battery A "Gimmick." Obama: "In this campaign, John McCain is offering the same old gimmicks that will provide almost no short-term relief to folks who are struggling with high gas prices. Gimmicks that will only increase our addiction for another four years." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Campaign Event, Las Vegas, NV, 6/24/08) 
Barack Obama Recently Criticized Expanding Nuclear Power. Obama: "That might make sense in Washington, but it doesn't make sense for America. In fact, it makes about as much sense as his proposal to build 45 new nuclear reactors without a plan to store the waste some place other than, guess where? Right here in Nevada at Yucca Mountain." (Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At Campaign Event, Las Vegas, NV, 6/24/08) 
ANNCR: Lower taxes? No. Even more jobs overseas. They don't understand. Their votes cost Michigan jobs. JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message. 
Barack Obama Has Called For Higher Income Taxes, Social Security Taxes, Capital Gains And Dividend Taxes, And Corporate Taxes, As Well As "Massive New Domestic Spending." "Obama's transformation, if you go by his campaign so far, would mean higher income taxes, higher Social Security taxes, higher investment taxes, higher corporate taxes, massive new domestic spending, and a healthcare plan that perhaps could be the next step to a full-scale, single-payer system. Is that what most Americans want, someone who will fulfill a Democratic policy wish list?" (James Pethokoukis, "Barack Hussein Reagan? Ronald Wilson Obama?" U.S. News & World Report's "Capital Commerce" Blog, www.usnews.com , 2/12/08) 
Barack Obama Would Raise Income Taxes. Obama: "[I] would roll back the Bush tax cuts for those making over $250,000." (Sen. Barack Obama, CNN Democrat Presidential Candidate Debate, Manchester, NH, 6/3/07) 
Barack Obama Would Raise Capital Gains And Dividend Taxes. "Sen. Obamawants to raise the long-term capital-gains rate for families making more than $250,000 to around 20 percent or somewhat higher but not above the 28 percent level it reached during the Reagan presidency, an Obama economic adviser says. The same rate would apply to most dividend income for these investors." (Tom Herman, "Tax Report Your Tax Bill: How McCain, ObamaDiffer," The Associated Press, 6/18/08) 
Barack Obama Would Raise Social Security (Payroll) Taxes On Families. "Obama's proposal ... would impose social security taxes on income above $250,000 per year. He would continue to exempt income between $102,000 and $250,000 from social security taxes." (Teddy Davis, Sunlen Miller, and Gregory Wallace, "Obama Kisses Billions Goodbye," ABC News' "Political Radar" Blog, blogs.abcnews.com , 6/18/08) 
Barack Obama Has Called For A Tax On Coal And Natural Gas. Obama: "What we ought to tax is dirty energy, like coal and, to a lesser extent, natural gas." ("Q&A With Sen. Barack Obama," San Antonio Express-News, 2/19/08) 
Barack Obama Has Called For A Tax On Oil. Obama: "I think it is appropriate for us to impose a windfall profits tax on our oil companies."(Sen. Barack Obama, Remarks At A Campaign Event, Charlotte, NC, 5/2/08) 
FactCheck.org: "Obama's Votes Indicate A Willingness To Raise Taxes." "Certainly Obama's votes indicate a willingness to raise taxes, and Obama has not been shy about saying explicitly that he will raise some taxes." ("The $32,000 Question," FactCheck.org, http://www.factcheck.org , 7/8/08)
  