
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

America has long been known as the land of plenty. Our Nation's dedicated farmers, ranchers, and workers throughout the agricultural sector provide abundant and affordable food and fiber that feed and clothe the world. Their tremendous productivity is one of our country's greatest assets. To recognize and support the citizens who help to bring forth that extraordinary bounty, National Farm Safety and Health Week promotes the protection and well-being of America's agricultural providers.
Our country has made tremendous advances in improving safety and efficiency in agriculture over the years. But much remains to be done. Long hours, adverse weather conditions, natural disasters, human negligence, and uncertain market prices all affect both the livelihood and health of our farmers and ranchers. These individuals must also contend with a variety of other risks: exposure to hazardous chemicals, crop and livestock diseases, and the operation and maintenance of complex, powerful farm machinery. Vigilance and caution remain critical in the performance of daily tasks.
Children and young people are particularly at risk for serious injury. They are more prone to accidents and are especially vulnerable to dangerous chemicals. Their energy, optimism, and love are irreplaceable resources. We must all be mindful of the need to provide them proper supervision and guidance.
Agricultural workers face many dangers, but their work is among the most rewarding in the world. As the Earth's population grows and the demand for food rises, we depend on our providers now more than ever. We must strive to maintain our high standards of safety, while developing new technologies that will meet the challenges of tomorrow. This week, we resolve anew to make safety and health precautions indispensable tools in strengthening America's great farming and ranching traditions.
Now, Therefore, I, William J. Clinton, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September 18–24, 1994, as "National Farm Safety and Health Week." I call upon the agencies, organizations, and businesses that serve America's agricultural workers to strengthen their commitment to promoting farm safety and health programs. I further call upon all citizens of our great Nation to reflect on the importance of our agricultural heritage and to make the health and safety of our farmers, ranchers, and farm workers among our utmost national priorities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and nineteenth.

WILLIAM J. CLINTON
  