
    McLean, VA - The Thompson campaign is pleased to announce today that Larry Lindsey will serve as senior economic advisor to the campaign. In addition, the campaign will be announcing other members of its economic advisory team in the near future.
Larry Lindsey is currently President and Chief Executive Officer of The Lindsey Group. Prior to forming The Lindsey Group, he held the position of Assistant to the President and Director of the National Economic Council at the White House and was the Chief Economic Advisor to candidate George W. Bush during the 2000 Presidential campaign.
Senator Fred Thompson stated: "I am honored to have Larry Lindsey join my team as senior economic advisor. He played a critical role in helping President Bush succeed in cutting taxes for hard working Americans. With his help, we will carry our conservative message and agenda all the way from the campaign trail to the White House."
"Fred Thompson has consistently demonstrated his commitment to responsible pro-growth economic policies, and I am honored to be a part of his campaign," Lindsey said.
Dr. Lindsey also served as a Governor of the Federal Reserve System from 1991 to 1997, as Special Assistant to the President for Domestic Economic Policy during the first Bush Administration, and as Senior Staff Economist for Tax Policy at the Council of Economic Advisers during President Reagan's first term.
Dr. Lindsey served five years on the Economics faculty of Harvard University and held the Arthur F. Burns Chair for Economic Research at the American Enterprise Institute. From 1997 until 2001 he was Managing Director of Economic Strategies, a global consulting firm.
Dr. Lindsey earned his A.B. Magna Cum Laude from Bowdoin College and his M.A. and Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University. He was awarded the Outstanding Doctoral Dissertation Award by the National Tax Association and named the Citicorp Wriston Fellow for Economic Research at the Manhattan Institute. He is the author of numerous articles and two books: The Growth Experiment and Economic Puppet Masters.
  