
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      Major General Marcelite Harris, USAF (Ret) – Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy
•      Lieutenant General Arlen D. Jameson, USAF (Ret) – Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy
•      Elizabeth Young McNally – Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
•      Patrick J. Murphy – Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
•      Sally Susman – Member, Library of Congress Trust Fund Board
President Obama said, "These men and women have demonstrated knowledge and dedication throughout their careers. I am grateful they have chosen to take on these important roles, and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
Major General Marcelite Harris, USAF (Ret), Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy
Major General Marcelite Harris, USAF (Ret), most recently served at NASA as the Florida Site Director and Logistics Process Owner. She retired from the U.S. Air Force in 1997 as the highest ranking female officer in the Air Force and the Nation's highest ranking African American woman in the Department of Defense. She was first appointed to the Board of Visitors of the United States Air Force Academy in 2010. Her service medals include the Bronze Star, the Presidential Unit Citation, and the Vietnam Service Medal. She served as Treasurer of the Atlanta Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and Director on the Board of Peachtree Hope Charter School. Major General Harris received a B.A. from Spelman College and a B.S. from the University of Maryland University College.
Lieutenant General Arlen D. Jameson, USAF (Ret), Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy
Lieutenant General Arlen D. Jameson, USAF (Ret), was the Executive Director of the Texas Telecommunications Infrastructure Fund from 2001 to 2003. He retired in 1996 after 34 years of service in the Air Force where he held a number of positions, including Deputy Commander-in-Chief of U.S. Strategic Command, Offutt Air Force Base, Nebraska, and Chief of Staff of Strategic Air Command. He was first appointed to the Board of Visitors to the United States Air Force Academy in 2010. Lieutenant General Jameson's awards include the Defense Distinguished Service Medal, the Air Force Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star Medal. Lieutenant General Jameson graduated from the National War College, and received a B.A. from the University of Puget Sound and an M.B.A. from The Ohio State University.
Elizabeth Young McNally, Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy 
Elizabeth Young McNally is an Associate Principal at McKinsey & Co., a position she has held since 2008. She was first appointed to the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy in 2011. She served as a Captain in the U.S. Army Reserves from 2009 to 2012. From 2000 to 2008, she served in active duty in a number of positions, including Speechwriter for the Commander, Multi-National Force in Iraq, and Company Commander of the 39th Military Police Detachment at Fort Shafter, Hawaii. She received two Army Bronze Star Medals and the Meritorious Service Medal. She is a Rhodes Scholar and a Truman Scholar. Ms. McNally received a B.S. from the United States Military Academy and M.Phil. in International Relations from Oxford University.
Patrick J. Murphy, USA (Ret), Appointee for Member, Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy
Patrick J. Murphy, USA (Ret), is a partner at the law firm of Fox Rothschild LLP in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and a senior fellow at the Center for American Progress. He was first appointed to the Board of Visitors to the United States Military Academy in 2011. As the first Iraq War veteran elected to the U.S. Congress, Mr. Murphy represented the 8th District of Pennsylvania in the United States House of Representatives from 2007 to 2011. He served on the House Armed Services Committee, the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and the House Appropriations Committee. From 2003 to 2004, he was deployed as a paratrooper with the U.S. Army's 82nd Airborne Division, where he earned the Bronze Star for Service. In 2001, Mr. Murphy volunteered for overseas deployment and was deployed to Bosnia in 2002. Mr. Murphy received a B.A. from King's College and a J.D. from Widener University School of Law.
Sally Susman, Appointee for Member, Library of Congress Trust Fund Board
Sally Susman is Executive Vice President for Corporate Affairs at Pfizer, which she joined in 2007. Previously, she was Executive Vice President of Global Communications at the Estée Lauder Companies. Ms. Susman has also held high level communications and government relations posts at American Express Company. From 1993 to 1995, she served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Legislative and Intergovernmental Affairs at the U.S. Department of Commerce. She is on the board of the International Rescue Committee, the New York City Commission on Women's Issues, and WPP. Ms. Susman received a B.A. from Connecticut College.
  