
    In 2018, Beto put Texas in play. With his strong support from those across Texas, he can win the state's 38 electoral votes and defeat Donald Trump
EL PASO, TX - More than 100 elected officials and community leaders from every region of Texas have proudly endorsed Beto O'Rourke for President of the United States as Houston prepares to host the third Democratic primary debate. The diverse group of more than 70 elected officials includes local leaders, city and county representatives, and members of the Texas State House, Texas State Senate, and United States House of Representatives. The community leaders supporting the former El Paso Congressman include activists and organizers on the frontlines of the state's efforts to fight climate change, end gun violence, protect Dreamers, reform the justice system, secure LGBTQ+ equality, expand workers' rights, and achieve universal health care.
In 2018, Beto unlocked Texas's 38 electoral votes by building a historic grassroots campaign that forever transformed Texas and put the state in play for the first time in decades. Swinging the state by 25 points since 2014, he received more votes than any Democrat in Texas history, won Independents for the first time in decades, and got the support of nearly half a million Republicans while running on a progressive agenda. Beto's diverse coalition organized on the ground across the state, which led to a robust 36% increase in support from Latinx Texans and a 35% increase in support from women throughout Texas when compared to the state's last Democratic Senate election results. Young voter turnout also increased by more than 200%. With a diverse coalition like this in battleground states across the country and robust support throughout Texas, Beto can win the state's 38 electoral votes, put new places in play, defeat Donald Trump, and bring this deeply divided country together again.
Polling in Texas continues to show Beto running in the top two out of more than 20 primary candidates. A new Texas Lyceum Poll showed him leading in the state among women voters, Latinx voters, and young voters. A University of Texas at Tyler survey also found that Beto is beating President Trump by double digits in the general election. No other Democratic candidate's lead over Trump exceeded the margin of error. The Texas primary takes place on Super Tuesday, and the state has 228 delegates that are awarded proportionally.
  