
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate Floor)(Sponsors: Bvrd (D), WV; Sasser (D), TN)
The Administration continues to oppose Congressional action on appropriations bills in advance of a budget summit agreement. Such action could unnecessarily and perhaps harmfully complicate implementation of a final budget resolution that reflects the agreement. However, inasmuch as the Senate is going to take action, the Administration will express its views on these bills. The purpose of this Statement of Administration Policy is to express views on the FY 1991 Military Construction Appropriations Bill, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee.
The Committee has reduced the funding for requested programs by $1.1 billion. The Senate is urged to restore the requested level, including the $210 million cut from the NATO Infrastructure appropriation request. Funds for the NATO Infrastructure account are necessary io meet our obligations under treaties and agreements with our NATO allies. The Committee has also added funding for programs that were not requested. Specifically, $296 million was added for national guard and reserve construction projects. The Senate is urged to delete the funding for these projects.
The Administration supports the Congressional adoption of $286 million in requested rescissions and urges the Senate to adopt the remaining $41 million in rescissions that have been proposed.
Language added by the Committee to overturn the moratorium on new military construction projects is unwarranted. The extension of the moratorium by the Department of Defense was intended solely to allow time to determine which projects are no longer required and can be recommended for rescission. The moratorium will be lifted as soon as those determinations are made. The Secretary of Defense will consider recommending that the President veto the bill if it includes language that would mandate lifting the moratorium.
Sections 113 and 117, concerning reporting requirements on military exercises and burden-sharing, raise constitutional concerns regarding the President's role as Commander-in-Chief. These sections would be treated as advisory if enacted into law.
The Administration urges that these concerns be addressed during Senate consideration of the bill and that the Senate approve a Military Construction Appropriations Bill that is consistent with the Administration's request.
  