
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The history of our country is a history of triumph over adversity. Time after time, we have overcome threats from within and without. Over the generations, wars, depressions, and internal differences and bigotry in various forms have struck at the foundations of our society. As we have met these challenges together, the bonds between us as Americans have grown stronger.
We endure and remain a land of hope because of the basic goodness and strength of our people and because the God of us all has shown us His favor.
The decisions we make today on arms, economics, social justice and global responsibilities echo into the future of the world. We accept our responsibilities and make our choices with all the will and determination at our command, but always in the full knowledge that we are finally in the hands of God. In the words of the prophet Zechariah, "Not by might, not by power but by my spirit saith the Lord of Hosts." (4:6)
Recognizing this, the Congress by joint resolution approved April 17, 1952 (36 U.S.C. 185; 66 Stat. 64) has called upon the President to set aside a suitable day each year as a National Day of Prayer.
Now, Therefore, I, Jimmy Carter, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Wednesday, October 3, 1979, as a National Day of Prayer. I ask all Americans to join with me on that day to recommit ourselves to God, to each other and to the towering ideals of truth, justice, fairness, brotherhood, and love which our Nation has cherished and protected. Let us pray for the will and wisdom to create a world in which all people can live with each other in peace. Let us pray that careful stewardship of today's opportunities will protect and enlarge the inheritance of liberty and security we give our children.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred seventy-nine, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fourth.

JIMMY CARTER
  