
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




September 15, 202109:33 EDT

FLOTUS pool report #1 - wheels up to Wisconsin 
Good morning from JBA where FLOTUS is traveling to Wisconsin and Iowa.
Motorcade left the White House at 9 am and arrived at JBA at 9:19 am after an uneventful ride - lights and sirens the whole way. En route, the motorcade passed the Washington Monument where white flags are being placed on the National Mall to mark the COVID deaths in the United States.
FLOTUS is wearing a blue and black patterned dress, black blazer and black face mask for the trip.
Here are Dr. Biden's activities for the day, per the East Wing:
First Lady Jill Biden will travel to Milwaukee, Wisconsin and Des Moines, Iowa on Wednesday, September 15.
In Milwaukee, the First Lady will visit Marvin E. Pratt Elementary School and highlight the importance of helping keep students safe as they return to in-person learning.
In Des Moines, the First Lady will join Rep. Cindy Axne at Des Moines Area Community College and highlight how the Biden Administration is supporting families through the American Rescue Plan and its Build Back Better agenda.
Pool has been COVID tested.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly for the 1 hour 50 minute flight to Milwaukee.



September 15, 202110:42 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #2 - Milwaukee arrival 
Executive One Foxtrot was wheel's down Milwaukee at 10:13 am Central time.
Dr. Biden waved as she got off the plane. She was greeted on the tarmac by:

Brigadier General David May
Command Chief Master Sergeant Meredith Conn
Mayor Tom Barrett (D, Milwaukee)
Mrs. Kris Barrett

She shook hands with all - everyone is wearing face masks. She posed for pics with the mayor and Mrs. Barrett.
Motorcade is rolling to Marvin E. Pratt Elementary School where FLOTUS will make remarks and attend a listening session with educators and parents to discuss the return of in-person learning and the COVID safety measures involved.
It is 72 degrees and sunny - a beautiful day here.
Background from the East Wing:
The First Lady will visit Marvin E. Pratt Elementary School in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to highlight the importance of in-person learning this fall and the Biden Administration's ongoing efforts to help schools safely reopen. The First Lady's visit will recognize Governor Tony Evers' and MPS' commitment to effective implementation of COVID-19 safety protocols, such as mandatory masking. Upon arrival to the school, the First Lady will give brief remarks to the press and listening session participants. Next, she will participate in a listening session with an educator and five parents who have children at Marvin E. Pratt Elementary.
Marvin E. Pratt Elementary School is a public Title 1 school in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and is part of Milwaukee Public Schools, the largest school district in the state. Marvin E. Pratt Elementary has a total enrollment of around 300 students in grades pre-K to 5.
PARTICIPANTS

Ms. Tianna Evans, Principal, Marvin Pratt Elementary School
Mrs. Becky Pringle, President, National Education Association
Ms. Aleina Hodnett, Teacher, Marvin Pratt Elementary School
Ms. Carol Johnson, Parent
Ms. Rachel Spell, Parent
Ms. Jessica Davis, Parent
Ms. Naomi McBride, Parent
Ms. Brednia Johnson Allen, Parent

Also here is the staff traveling with FLOTUS today:
FLOTUS TRAVELING STAFFAnthony Bernal, Senior AdviserMala Adiga, Policy DirectorElizabeth Alexander, Communications DirectorMichael LaRosa, Press SecretaryAmber Macdonald, SpeechwriterJordan Montoya, Trip DirectorMary Wall, Senior Policy Adviser, White House COVID-19 Response Team



September 15, 202111:47 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #3 - Marvin E Pratt Elementary school remarks and roundtable 
Motorcade arrived Marvin E Pratt Elementary School at 10:55 am. Ride was uneventful with a few people filming on their phones as we went by.
Highlights: FLOTUS wouldn't take questions when local reporters asked her about a vaccine mandate. During round table, when a parent said there was no face mask debate in the district, Dr. Biden praised the unity on the issue.
FLOTUS spoke in the school library at a podium. Ten people sat in a large circle of chairs in the room. People are wearing face masks and socially distanced.
Excepts from her remarks (as always please check against transcript):
"The school year brings a new mix of emotions," she noted.
"For parents it's not having to hear I'm bored over and over again."
She spoke of the worries COVID brings "A simple cough can get your heart racing."
"And as a teacher for more than 30 years in fact, I just started my own semester this last week. And, as a mom. I've seen that the classrooms are just so much larger than places where children learn math and reading."
"The American Rescue Plan increases access to broadband and tech devices, creates additional learning opportunities outside of the classroom, and provides more mental health support."
"So I'm here today because your children matter to me. And they matter to the President, and my husband, Joe is committed to be a partner, all of you."
"We can't know what the future holds, but we know what we owe our children. We owe them a province that will do all that we can to keep their schools open, and as safe as possible. We owe them a commitment to follow the science, and we owe them unity. So we can fight the virus, and not each other."
She spoke of the difficulties covid brings: "I know this is complicated, but we're going to keep listening and we're going to keep learning from your experiences, and we are committed to working as hard for your children, as you do. And together, I know that we are going to find a way forward."
After her remarks Dr. Biden took her place in the circle of parents and educators for the listening session.
One woman said she had two great grandkids in the school and was worried about safety but glad to see her kids back in school. "You can only do so much Hide and Seek," she said.
Principal Tianna Evans said parents were being "adaptable and flexible" with coming back to in-person.
Dr. Biden asked several questions. She asked one mom who talked about food assistance what programs she used and how they were helpful. She asked another mom how she was taking care of herself during the pandemic.
When one parent said she hoped to get her kids vaccinated, Jill Biden said: "That's what we're hoping for," adding: "Pretty soon we'reHoping to get a vaccine for kids under 12."
Mary Wall, Senior Policy Adviser, White House COVID-19 Response Team, who is traveling with FLOTUS and part of the round table, said: "We are still hoping for later this year, you don't have a totally fun timeline but we're hoping for later this year."
Another parent noted "There hasn't been a debate about the masking situation in this district. I couldn't send my kid to school without a mask."
"There hasn't," Dr. Biden asked. "That probably just takes that stress off of you as well" praising them for being unified.
In her closing remarks she thanked them for their stories: "I'll take them back to the White House with me and when I see my husband and we're having dinner I'll say this is what I heard," she said. "He will hear your stories."
A local reporter with the ABC affiliate WISN-TV asked Dr. Biden as she left: Do you think a vaccine mandate is appropriate for public schools?
"I don't think we're taking questions," FLOTUS responded.
Another local reporter asked a similar question as she left, which FLOTUS ignored.
Her remarks and roundtable lasted about 30 minutes.
Here is my otter recording: https://otter.ai/u/F1nVCGSdCwpqVZKBZnYIFDh22w8
Also please note several local TV stations were here taping the whole thing.



September 15, 202113:15 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #4 - return to Milwaukee airport and headed to Des Moines 
Motorcade left the school at 12:39 pm central time and arrived back at the airport at 12:59 pm after an uneventful ride.
FLOTUS thanked her police escort - cops on motorcycles - and posed for pics with them. She walked up to the line of bikes to shake hands and pose for the photos. She then boarded the plane, waving at the top.
At the school, pool held while FLOTUS did the photo line and had a one-on-one with the New York Times.
She also waved to children in two classrooms, per spokesman Michael LaRosa.
Next stop is Des Moines, where Dr. Biden will visit the Des Moines Area Community College with Rep. Cindy Axne to talk about the child tax credit. The college has a full time day care center.
Flight times is 1 hour 10 minutes.
Also here is a link to the video of the Milwaukee school visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SiJlADWwYNM
And here are FLOTUS remarks from Milwaukee school as prepared for delivery:
Remarks as Prepared for DeliveryFirst Lady Jill BidenMarvin Pratt Elementary SchoolMilwaukee, WisconsinSeptember 15, 2021
***The new school year always brings a mix of emotions. All at once, we feel the anticipation of new classmates and teachers.
For parents: the relief of not having to hear "I'm bored!" again and again. The anxiety of juggling your family's complicated schedule. And that was before the uncertainties of COVID.
Now, a simple cough can start your heart racing. And you know that a quarantine could send your kids home and upend your life once again.
Parents, this is hard, but you're doing your best—and I want you to know: You're not alone.
As a teacher for more than 30 years—in fact, I just started my semester last week—and as a mom, I've seen that classrooms are so much more than places where our children learn math and reading.
We've all seen it. When our kids make friends that last for years, when they learn to settle disagreements or find the confidence to try out for sports teams. Parents rely on schools, too, heading to our own jobs, knowing that our kids are in an environment we trust.
That's why I'm so grateful for the educators—like those here at Marvin Pratt Elementary—who helped us through the last year. When families needed help the most, educators answered the call.
And it's also why I'm grateful for states like Wisconsin and governors like yours that are providing strong leadership to reopen our schools.
The American Rescue Plan increases access to broadband and tech devices, creates additional learning opportunities outside of the classroom, and provides more mental health support.
And Governor Evers is working closely with the Biden-Harris Administration to make sure Wisconsin has what they need to help keep schools safe.
We've made so much progress. But I know parents still have questions. I'm here today because your children matter to me—and they matter to the President.
My husband, Joe, is committed to being a partner to you. That's why he released a bold plan last week to make sure all of our schools can stay safe and open—by helping to ensure that the adults and students who surround our children are vaccinated.
We can't know what the future holds, but we know what we owe our children.
We owe them a promise to do all we can to keep their schools open and as safe as possible.
We owe them a commitment to follow the science.
And we owe them unity—so we can fight the virus, not each other.
I'm here today to talk about how your school is welcoming students back to in-person learning—and hear how it's going for your families. I know this is complicated, but we are going to keep listening and learning from your experiences.
We are committed to working as hard for your children as you do—and together, I know we will find a way forward.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly.



September 15, 202114:26 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #5 - Des Moines arrival 
Executive One Foxtrot landed in Des Moines at 2:10 pm central time.
FLOTUS was greeted by:
• Colonel Travis Crawmer, Wing Commander, 132nd Wing• Congresswoman Cindy Axne (D, IA-03)• Mrs. Christie Vilsack
Dr. Biden hugged both Axne and Vilsack.
It is 81 degrees and sunny.
Motorcade is headed to Des Moines Area Community College where Dr. Biden will give remarks about the child tax credit. The college has a full time day care center.
Here is background from East Wing:
The First Lady will join Congresswoman Cindy Axne (D, IA-03) at the Des Moines Area Community College (DMACC) Ankeny Campus and highlight how the Biden Administration is supporting families through the American Rescue Plan and its ongoing efforts to pass the Build Back Better agenda. They will point to the Biden Administration's historic expansion of the Child Tax Credit and efforts to increase access to affordable, high-quality child care for working families. The event will take place at DMACC Ankeny Campus, which includes a child care center which offers full-day care for children of DMACC staff and students. The American Rescue Plan delivered historic support for families and children, such as child care industry stabilization funding and the expanded Child Tax Credit (CTC) and Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit (CDCTC). The Build Back Better agenda, which is currently being negotiated with Congress, seeks to extend the CTC and CDCTC increases enacted in the American Rescue Plan.
Congresswoman Cindy Axne has represented Iowa's 3rd Congressional District since 2019. The district is in Southwestern Iowa and includes Des Moines and Council Bluffs. Before Axne was elected to Congress, she worked in state government on service delivery in over 20 state agencies in Iowa's executive branch. She serves on the Agriculture and Financial Services Committees. Rep. Axne lives in West Des Moines with her husband John and has two children: Gunnar (18) and Rafe (16).



September 15, 202116:32 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #6 - Des Moines Area Community College 
Motorcade arrived at Des Moines Area Community College in Ankeny at 3:03 pm central time after an uneventful ride.
Dr. Biden delivered remarks on Build Back Better in the John Deere Exhibition Hall. There are Build Back Better signs around the room. There's also signs saying "Welcome Dr. Biden." A sign outside the building asks that people coming inside wear face masks.
Dr. Biden is speaking from a podium with a Build Back Better sign on it. There's a teleprompter.
There are about 40 seats spaced out.
After her remarks Dr. Biden signed a homemade "Welcome Dr. Biden" sign. The kids at the Early Childhood Education Center at the college made the sign, which had lots of paint swirls in various colors on it. "Thank you Love Jill Biden," FLOTUS wrote, adding a heart symbol.
Rep. Axne made opening remarks. She noted this is Dr. Biden's first trip to Iowa as First Lady. She noted Iowans receiving their third child tax credit payment this week.
Dr. Biden said it was good to be back in Iowa. (As always please check against transcript)
"I think I've spent half of my life here. I think you've heard more of my speeches than Joe has."
She also mentioned she loved getting rhubarb pie when she's in Iowa.
She talks about all the stories she hears from parents who struggle to work and help their kids, particularly during the pandemic.
She is pushing for the expansion of the child tax credit. "This is infrastructure," she said of child care.
"Joe gets it. He was a single parent for a few years," she said.
She touted the Build Back Better plan, noting it includes two years of free tuition for community colleges like this one she's speaking at.
"This one is close to my heart," she said of the community college portion.



September 15, 202116:56 CDT

FLOTUS pool report #7 - headed back to JBA 
Motorcade left the college campus at 4:02 pm central time and arrived at the Des Moines airport at 4:44 pm after an uneventful drive.
Dr. Biden waved at the top of the stairs as she boarded.
Next stop is JBA. Flight time is 2 hours, 5 minutes.
Executive One Foxtrot is wheels up shortly.



September 15, 202120:28 EDT

FLOTUS pool #8 - back at White House 
Executive One Foxtrot landed at JBA at 7:49 pm.
Flight back was quiet with no visitors to the press cabin. A New York Times reporter and photographer were escorted to FLOTUS' cabin for a one on one during the flight.
Served on the flight was homemade strawberry rhubarb pie given to FLOTUS in Iowa.
Dr. Biden disembarked at 7:58 pm and got into her vehicle.
Motorcade was lights and sirens back to White House, arriving back at 8:21 pm.
Pool didn't see her go into residence.
Thanks to co-poolers New York Times' Katie Rogers and CNN's Kate Bennett.
That's a wrap from the FLOTUS pool. And below you'll find excerpts from FLOTUS' remarks in Iowa. Have a good rest of your night.
**EXCERPTS**Remarks as Prepared for DeliveryFirst Lady Jill BidenDes Moines Area Community CollegeAnkeny, IowaSeptember 15, 2021
***The last time I had the chance to visit DMACC, I took a tour of the Tool and Diemaking labs. I got to see state-of-the-art machines and learn how this school is preparing students for in-demand jobs here in their home town.
But the best part was my student tour guide, Mandy. Mandy was warm and excited to show me around. She had answers to all of my questions and she told me how much she hoped to accomplish with her degree. And as we walked, having our very grown-up conversation, her young son, Hudson, tagged along—quietly holding her hand.
As a single mom, Mandy couldn't invest in the career that would give her family a better life without child care.
It's a story I've heard in every corner of Iowa, from backyard BBQ's, to coffee shops, to diners and farmers markets.
It's a story I hear from families in every state.
***
Parents can't go to school or work if they don't have a safe, trusted place to send their children. And yet, whether you're a struggling single parent or a dual income family,the cost of child care can be crushing.
As Congresswoman Axne said, this is infrastructure. Investing in working families is the best way to recover from this pandemic.
And we've known for years that it's also the best way to strengthen our economy and make it more resilient for whatever challenges we face.
Now, Joe is doing just that—investing in you.
***
Since July, millions of families have received monthly Child Tax Credit payments.
It's is the largest Child Tax Credit ever. And it's money that families can count on—up to $300 per child, every month.
In fact, check your bank account. Many of you will be getting your third payment today.
If you have kids, you know: When you have to buy school supplies, when you have a trip to the urgent care, or a bill for braces, an extra $300 means you can stop holding your breath.
***
Joe promised that he would work day and night to lead us out of the chaos our country was facing—and he is a man of his word.
I couldn't be prouder of him, and of you and your colleagues in Congress, Cindy—for standing with families in the wake of this crisis.
But we all know that we can't stop here.
That's why Congress must pass Joe's Build Back Better plan. It would extend Child Tax payments for years to come. It would guarantee access to high-quality, affordable child care. It would create free, universal preschool. It would make two years of community college, at schools like DMACC, free.
We've seen how community colleges can change people's lives—and their children's lives as well.
***
When we invest in moms like Mandy, when we give working families the support they need, they can worry less about scraping by and more about raising happy, healthy families.
They're able to bring their talents and skills to organizations that need them.
They can start new businesses and become leaders in their communities.
Child care, education, opportunities for working families to get ahead—they are the foundation of our economic recovery—and our future prosperity.
Joe knows that. His administration is fighting every day to get rid of the obstacles you face—so you can focus on what matters most: Your kids. Your job. Your future.
We are committed to working as hard for your family as you do.




  