
    AUSTIN - Georgia Lt. Governor Casey Cagle and Commissioner of Agriculture Gary W. Black endorsed Texas Gov. Rick Perry for president today, citing his proven record of job creation and his strong performance in Wednesday's Republican presidential debate as reasons for their support.
"Gov. Perry proved last night that he is not only the Republican candidate who can win, but the candidate who can get America working again," said Lt. Gov. Cagle. "He connects with people, he knows the issues and he's got a record of job creation that no candidate of either party can touch."
"As a former cotton farmer and Texas Agriculture Commissioner, Rick Perry understands the needs of Georgia agriculture and rural America," Commissioner Black said. "And as a true fiscal conservative, he shares my belief in a limited government that doesn't over-regulate, over-tax or over-spend. Rick Perry's proven conservative leadership is exactly what America needs."
With Georgia's unemployment rate at 10.1 percent, both officials cited Gov. Perry's record of job creation as a key reason for their endorsements. Since Perry became Governor, Texas has gained approximately one million jobs — a strong contrast to the nearly 2.4 million jobs America has lost since Barack Obama became President. And since June 2009, Texas is responsible for nearly 40 percent of the net new jobs in America.
"Georgia needs jobs, and Rick Perry is the candidate who can help get our economy running again," said Lt. Gov. Cagle.
"I want to bring jobs to Georgia and restore the American economy," said Gov. Rick Perry. "I appreciate the support of Lt. Gov. Cagle and Commissioner Black because they are conservative leaders the people of Georgia trust. I look forward to working with them as I visit the state and seek to earn the trust of their constituents."
A successful entrepreneur and respected former State Senator, Casey Cagle made history in 2006 by becoming the first Republican ever elected to Georgia's second highest office. He was overwhelmingly reelected in 2010.
A lifelong advocate for Georgia agriculture and a family farmer, Gary W. Black became the first Republican to be elected Commissioner of Agriculture in 2010.
  