
    COLUMBIA, SC — Texas First Lady Anita Perry today announced 21 GOP South Carolina General Assembly members' endorsement of Texas Gov. Rick Perry for President at the grand opening event of the Perry Campaign's South Carolina Headquarters office. The five Senators and 16 Representatives will serve on Perry's State Legislative Steering Committee.
"Republicans across South Carolina want two things in our nominee: a proven conservative record of job creation and a plan to put America back on track," said Senate Majority Leader Harvey Peeler. "Rick Perry is the candidate who meets both of those criteria. The number and the regional diversity represented by today's endorsements are a clear indication of the strong support Gov. Perry has across the Palmetto State."
Gov. Perry has been endorsed by the following South Carolina GOP leaders:

State Senate Majority Leader Harvey Peeler, Cherokee
State Senator Paul Campbell, Berkeley
State Senator Ronnie Cromer, Newberry
State Senator Larry Grooms, Berkeley
State Senator Mike Rose, Dorchester
State Rep. Todd Atwater, Lexington
State Rep. Liston Barfield, Horry
State Rep. Eric Bedingfield, Greenville
State Rep. Alan Clemmons, Horry
State Rep. Marion Frye, Saluda
State Rep. Dan Hamilton, Greenville
State Rep. Bill Hixon, Aiken
State Rep. Chip Limehouse, Charleston
State Rep. Philip Lowe, Florence
State Rep. Chris Murphy, Charleston
State Rep. Andy Patrick, Beaufort
State Rep. Bill Sandifer, Oconee
State Rep. Gary Simrill, Rock Hill
State Rep. Tommy Stringer, Greenville
State Rep. Bill Taylor, Aiken
State Rep. Mark Willis, Greenville

"It truly is an honor to receive the endorsements of these respected lawmakers of the South Carolina Assembly," said Gov. Perry. "These conservative leaders understand that our nation cannot afford four more years of an administration that is trying to tax and spend our nation to prosperity. I look forward to these fine individuals' support as I travel the nation to share my vision for how we will get our nation's fiscal house in order and get America working again."
Sen. Paul Campbell: "Rick Perry is the right choice because of his proven, successful executive leadership experience. I believe Governor Perry is the only candidate in the race who can take back the White House and restore a path of prosperity for America. I'm supporting Rick Perry and I will be encouraging others to do the same."
Sen. Ronnie Cromer: "I'm supporting Rick Perry not only because of his fiscally sound record and his experience of creating jobs," Cromer said. "I'm also supporting Perry because I believe he is the only candidate who can beat President Obama next year. It would be devastating for our country to endure another four years of the Obama administration. Rick Perry is the guy to beat him and he can get our country back on track."
Rep. Todd Atwater: "Our country needs a leader who can balance the budget and create jobs. I believe Rick Perry is that leader. He has a record of maintaining a balanced budget without raising taxes while creating jobs. We cannot afford another four years of a plummeting job market and out-of-control spending. We need to send Rick Perry to Washington."
Rep. Liston Barfield: "I'm supporting Rick Perry for President because his leadership and conservative values are what our country needs to get back on track. Rick Perry's experience of balancing a budget and creating jobs makes him my first choice for President."
Rep. Eric Bedingfield: "This race is about two things, Jobs and the Economy. Governor Perry, soon to be our Republican nominee for President, is exactly what South Carolina Republicans are looking for to replace the current resident of the White House. Rick Perry has the job creation record and executive experience to make President Obama a one-term president and to get America working again."
Rep. Bill Hixon: "I am excited about getting on board with Governor Perry's campaign. Governor Perry has shown outstanding leadership in Texas by maintaining a balanced budget and creating jobs is the kind of leadership we need in the White House.
Rep. Chip Limehouse: "Rick Perry is the best choice because of his conservative record as Governor of Texas. His commitment to balancing the budget of Texas without raising taxes despite the economic downturn should be an example to all legislators across the country and especially to Congress. We need Rick Perry in the White House."
Rep. Chris Murphy: "Rick Perry is a real conservative — exactly what our country needs. We can't afford another four years of the Obama administration and I believe Rick Perry is the man who not only shares our values, but also can win. I'm proud to endorse Rick Perry for President."
Rep. Bill Sandifer: "Rick Perry's record of job creation, maintaining fiscal responsibility, and commitment to conservative values is why I'm supporting him for president. I'm confident that Governor Perry can get our country on the right path and get America working again."
Rep. Tommy Stringer: "Rick Perry can get our country back on the right path. Governor Perry not only has a fiscally conservative record, he also is a social conservative who shares our family values. The leadership he has shown in balancing the budget and his commitment in protecting the unborn is exactly the type of leadership and commitment we need in Washington."
Rep. Mark Willis: "I'm supporting Governor Rick Perry for President because I believe he is the candidate of the people," Willis said. "Governor Perry's humble beginnings, his upbringing, and his proven conservative record as Governor of Texas are very appealing to voters looking for a real change. The people want someone they can trust and I believe Rick Perry is that person."
  