
    Nearly every Florida Speaker of the House from the last decade is rallying around Jeb Bush for president.
Jeb is honored to have the endorsement of eight Florida Speakers, past and present, who recognize his strong leadership and unwavering support of conservative principles. He's a clear choice because of his proven record of enacting real reforms that empowered Floridians to rise up and achieve earned success.

  He's a clear choice because of his proven record of enacting real reforms that empowered Floridians to rise up and achieve earned success.

They join a long list of GOP leaders across the state, including three Florida Cabinet members, 11 of 17 U.S. House Republicans, and 300 Republicans in Florida's largest county, Miami-Dade. Jeb's widespread support is a true testament to his leadership focused on delivering results and making a real difference in people's lives.
Here's why they're standing with Jeb, and why you should, too:
Speaker Webster (1996 — 1998)
"I've known Jeb Bush for three decades, served alongside him in Florida, and witnessed his tenacious, hands-on approach to government reform. Jeb has strong executive experience and it is an honor to endorse him as a principled leader with a proven conservative record."
Speaker Thrasher (1999 — 2000)
"Governor Jeb Bush will lead our nation as he led our state — a staunch conservative with a clear vision to lift families up and open the doors for abundant economic growth and educational opportunities."
Speaker Feeney (2000 — 2002)
"Jeb has forward-looking solutions to our nation's problems, will be focused on returning power to the States and allowing for greater local control. America needs Jeb's proven, conservative leadership."
Speaker Bense (2004 — 2006)
"It's an honor to endorse a leader who has a proven conservative record. As Speaker of the Florida House while Jeb was governor, I witnessed first-hand what true leadership really is. Jeb will bring this nation together and return us to being the 'shining city upon a hill'."
Speaker Cretul (2009 — 2010)
"Jeb is a strong leader with a proven record of advancing conservative principles. He has always been and remains dedicated to ensuring individuals from all different walks of life are given the opportunity to rise up and succeed."
Speaker Cannon (2010 — 2012)
"Jeb Bush's conservative record as governor is second to none. He is exactly who our country needs as president."
Speaker Weatherford (2012 — 2014)
"Jeb is a proven leader who stands by his conservative principles. Jeb's executive leadership experience as governor of Florida and as an entrepreneur in the private sector make him exceptionally qualified to restore our leadership role in the world and turn our economy around."
Speaker Crisafulli (2014 — present)
"Jeb was a true leader as governor of Florida, he shrank government, grew the economy and cut taxes. Now, more than ever, we need a true leader with a strategic vision for how to make America a world leader again. I will work hard to ensure Jeb Bush is the next president of the United States."
  