
    Castro candidate with 'strong vision' 'who can beat Donald Trump'
SAN ANTONIO, TX (September 18, 2019) – Indigenous leader and Iowa Democrat Christina Blackcloud wrote an op-ed for Iowa Starting Line about how "Julián Castro will be a president for all Americans" and the candidate "who can beat Donald Trump."
Blackcloud of the Meskwaki Nation, vice chair of the Native American Caucus of the Iowa Democratic Party, followed her strong endorsement of Castro with the op-ed stating Castro's priority is to "ensure that those most marginalized are represented thoroughly."
"Julián has been fighting to put people, all people, and their needs first ever since he first stepped foot on the city council in his hometown of San Antonio," Blackcloud wrote. "He understands what it's like to grow up in a neighborhood that didn't get as much consideration by representatives."
When Blackcloud endorsed Secretary Castro in August, Iowa Starting Line wrote "Landing Christina Blackcloud's support is pretty big for Julián Castro. At the very least, he's favored to win the Meskwaki precinct now and gets some good inroads into broader Native American community in Iowa."
Some highlights of the op-ed include: 
Julián Castro Will be a President for All Americans, Iowa Starting Line, Christina Blackcloud

Secretary Julián Castro has a vision to move us forward as one nation, with one destiny, and continues to prove his strength among the field. He is the candidate for Iowa.
Julián has been fighting to put people, all people, and their needs first ever since he first stepped foot on the city council in his hometown of San Antonio. He understands what it's like to grow up in a neighborhood that didn't get as much consideration by representatives.
As a presidential candidate, he was the first to put out an Indigenous Communities policy. He is committed to representing tribal Indigenous people, and I see in him the leadership that will continue to include our voice on a national level. I had the honor of introducing him at his policy rollout on the Meskwaki settlement, and I am proud that we are being listened to and included in the democratic process.
Sticking to his motto of "People First," I can tell you that Secretary Castro would be a President for all Americans, and ensure that those most marginalized are represented thoroughly.
Our job in the coming months could not be more important; not only are we tasked with choosing the candidate with a strong vision, but we must choose someone who can beat Donald Trump. Julián Castro is the man for the job, and there is too much on the line for our country to consider anything less.

  