
    The United States of America has been among the greatest forces for good in the history of the world, and the greatest defenders of sovereignty, security, and prosperity for all. --President Donald J. Trump
ADDRESSING THE UNITED NATIONS: President Donald J. Trump is delivering his second major remarks before the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). 

President Trump is attending the 73rd Session of the United Nations General Assembly, where he will deliver remarks to the full Assembly and attend a series of bilateral meetings.
This is the second major speech by President Trump before the UNGA, having delivered remarks to the Assembly in September 2017.

SHARING A VISION FOR COOPERATION: In his remarks, President Trump lays out a positive vision for cooperation among strong, sovereign partners. 

President Trump is sharing a positive vision for cooperation among nations based on mutual respect and sovereignty.
The United States seeks strong, sovereign partners who control their own destinies.
President Trump applauds nations that are taking more responsibility for solving problems in their regions, such as in the Middle East where countries have stepped up to combat terror.

ACHIEVING PEACE THROUGH STRENGTH: The Trump Administration has achieved historic foreign policy success in the year since President Trump's 2017 remarks to the UNGA.

In his remarks, President Trump details how his America First foreign policy is making America and the world safer, stronger, and more prosperous.
In the year since President Trump's 2017 remarks, the Trump Administration has diminished many of the major threats to peace, including North Korea, Iran, and ISIS.
President Trump has achieved historic progress with North Korea since his 2017 UNGA remarks, which called on North Korea to accept denuclearization as its only acceptable future.

President Trump attended the summit in Singapore with Chairman Kim Jong Un, the first-ever meeting between an American President and a North Korean head of state.
During this summit, the two leaders signed an agreement in which North Korea committed to working toward the complete denuclearization of the Korean peninsula.


The Trump Administration has helped achieve significant gains in the fight to eradicate ISIS.

In October 2017, ISIS's self-proclaimed capital city of Raqqah was liberated.
The Iraqi government announced in December 2017 that all Iraqi territory had been liberated from ISIS control.


President Trump used last year's speech to the UNGA to emphasize the threat posed by Iran and the disastrous, one-sided Iran Deal and has since taken action to address that threat.

President Trump followed through on his promise to withdraw from the Iran Deal.
The President has called for a comprehensive deal that permanently denies Iran any path to a nuclear weapon and has reiterated that the regime must cease the totality of its malign activities, including its support for terrorism.


The Trump Administration has confronted a number of other threats to peace identified in the President's 2017 UNGA remarks.

The United States joined allies in launching air strikes against targets associated with Syria's chemical weapons use.
The Administration has expanded its sanctions against the Venezuelan regime.



  