
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate eleven individuals and designate one individual to serve in his administration:
The President intends to nominate Ryan C. Crocker, of Washington, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Crocker currently serves as International Affairs Advisor at the National War College. He previously served as Director of Governance for the Coalitional Provisional Authority. Prior to this position, Mr. Crocker served as a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs. Earlier in his career he served as Ambassador to Syria, Kuwait and Lebanon. Mr. Crocker earned his bachelor's degree from Whitman College.
The President intends to nominate Marcie B. Ries, of the District of Columbia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States to the Republic of Albania. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Ms. Ries is currently serving as Senior Advisor to the Coordinator for Post-Conflict Reconstruction and Stabilization at the State Department. She previously served as Chief of Mission in Pristina, Kosovo. Prior to that, she was the Director of the Office of United Nations Political Affairs, Bureau of International Organization Affairs. Earlier in her career, Ms. Ries served as Deputy Political Counselor in London and as Deputy Political Counselor to the U.S. Mission to the European Union in Brussels. She earned her bachelor's degree from Oberlin College and her master's degree from the School of Advanced International Studies of Johns Hopkins University.
The President intends to nominate Buddie J. Penn, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Installations and Environment) at the Department of Defense. A thirty-year member of the United States Navy, Mr. Penn currently serves as Director of Industrial Base Assessments at the Department of Defense. He previously served as Manager of Lockheed Martin Federal Systems. Earlier in his career, Mr. Penn served as Director of International Business for Loral Federal Systems. He earned his bachelor's degree from Purdue University and his master's degree from The George Washington University.
The President intends to designate Edwin Pinero, of Pennsylvania, to be the Federal Environmental Executive at the Environmental Protection Agency. Mr. Pinero currently serves as Deputy Federal Environmental Executive at the Office of the Federal Environmental Executive. He previously served as President of Pinero Consulting, an environmental management consulting firm. Earlier in his career, Mr. Pinero served as Bureau Director at the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection. He earned his bachelor's degree from the State University of New York at Brockport and his master's degree from Texas A&M University.
The President intends to nominate the following individuals to be Members of the National Science Board, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring May 10, 2010:
Dan Arvizu of Colorado
Steven C. Beering of Indiana
Gerald Wayne Clough of Georgia
Kelvin Kay Droegemeier of Oklahoma
Louis J. Lanzerotti of New Jersey
Alan I. Leshner of Maryland
Jon C. Strauss of California
Kathryn D. Sullivan of Ohio
  