
    Baton Rouge HQ to keep Bayou State competitive
LAKE JACKSON, Texas — The Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign announced today that Dr. Paul will attend the grand opening of his Louisiana state headquarters. The grand opening will take place on Friday, September 23rd beginning at 5:30 p.m. at the Louisiana headquarters, located at 7047 Jefferson Highway, Suite B in Baton Rouge.
The event will occur immediately after Dr. Paul's speech to "Youth for Ron Paul" members at Louisiana State University, also in Baton Rouge.
"We're pleased to expand our campaign footprint to include a presence in the Bayou State. Ron Paul's message of constitutionally limited government, sound money and a traditional Republican non-interventionist foreign policy is certain to gain traction among a large segment of Louisianians," said Ron Paul 2012 National Campaign Chairman Jesse Benton.
"Dr. Paul has built a strong base of support throughout Louisiana by being on the right side of the big issues — opposing bailouts, fighting harsh regulations placed on energy producers, pushing for transparency at the Federal Reserve and promoting a traditionally American foreign policy," said Pete Chamberlain, Louisiana executive director for the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign.
"In a Republican primary where other candidates are falling over each other trying to sound like Ron Paul, Louisiana Republicans will want to support the real thing, so we believe this campaign will be very competitive in the upcoming caucus and primary elections," said Mr. Chamberlain.
The event is expected to attract hundreds of Ron Paul supporters. In addition to Dr. Paul, planned speakers include the following luminaries: Austrian School economist Walter Block, the Harold E. Wirth Endowed Chair in Economics at Loyola University in New Orleans; Mike Church, talk radio host, author, producer and voiceover talent; and attorney Michele Gaudin, WGSO 990 AM talk radio co-host and member, Orleans Parish Republican Executive Committee. The event will feature live music provided by 'The Last Laff' and Aaron Free as well as catered barbecue and cold beverages amid a family-friendly atmosphere.
For more information on the Ron Paul 2012 Presidential Campaign in Louisiana, or to register as a volunteer, please visit www.RonPaul2012.com.
  