
    Today, Romney for President released Mitt Events, an exciting new application which breaks the mold on mobile campaign engagement.  Mitt Events, the latest application for Apple iOS and android devices, empowers supporters with a truly immersive experience for live political events.
"This groundbreaking application enhances the excitement of real world campaign rallies with popular online sharing tools," said Zac Moffatt, Digital Director for Romney for President. "It's a truly unique and interactive application, as opposed to the traditional simple calendar listings. With over 20 million voters already contacted by volunteers this cycle, there has been a massive demand for an application like this." 
The Mitt Events app garners a host of compelling original features including:

Dynamic geo-location of events— past, present, and future.
Simple integration into the popular MyMitt network.
Feature rich real-time publishing of photos, tweets, and other sharing capabilities.
Live event alerts for registered attendees.

The Mitt Events application allows supporters to locate nearby campaign rallies, victory parties, and other in-person events.  A simple sign-up process allows new users to register with the popular MyMitt network found on MittRomney.com and indicate which events they want to attend.
Once the user has registered for the event, he or she can plan out his or her activities and engage friends and family over social networks and email.  On the day of the event, attendees within a 2-mile radius of the location are granted permission to post photos, tweets, and other updates that will be shared real-time on the event page of the Romney event application.
Moffatt continued, "Today's voters deeply desire to engage with candidates both in person and online.  The Mitt Events app fuses the exciting world of mobile engagement with truly unique location-based capabilities."
The Mitt Events app can be downloaded at the iTunes App store or Google Play, or by visiting http://mi.tt/Mitt-Events.
  