
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
August 31
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton, continuing a weekend campaign bus tour, traveled from Paducah, KY, to Troy and Dyersburg, TN. In the afternoon, they traveled to Covington, TN.
In the evening, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Memphis, TN, ending a weekend campaign bus tour. Later, they traveled to Little Rock, AR.
September 1
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with the following world leaders concerning the situation in northern Iraq: Prime Minister John Major of Great Britain, King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, King Hussein of Jordan, President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, and President Jacques Chirac of France.
September 2
In the morning, the President attended a breakfast with members of the National Baptist Association of America at the Excelsior Hotel in Little Rock, AR. Later, he traveled to Green Bay and DePere, WI.
In the afternoon, while in DePere, the President had a telephone conversation with President Jacques Chirac of France concerning the situation in northern Iraq. Later in the afternoon, the President returned to Green Bay, where he visited the Green Bay Packers football team at Lambeau Field. He then traveled to Milwaukee, WI.
In the evening, the President returned to Washington, DC.
Both upon his arrival in Milwaukee, WI, and while en route to Washington, DC, the President had telephone conversations with Chief of Staff Leon E. Panetta and National Security Adviser Anthony Lake concerning the situation in northern Iraq.
September 3
In the morning, the President had telephone conversations with House Speaker Newt Gingrich, Senate majority leader Trent Lott, Senate minority leader Thomas A. Daschle, House minority leader Richard A. Gephardt, and Republican Presidential nominee Bob Dole concerning the situation in northern Iraq.
The President announced the reappointment of Mary Lucille Jordan as Chair and member of the Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. Ms. Jordan will serve as a recess appointee.
September 4
In the morning, the President was treated by Bethesda Naval Hospital dermatologists who performed a simple outpatient procedure in the White House.
In the morning, the President attended a reception for Representative Tim Johnson at the Hay Adams Hotel.
September 5
In the morning, the President traveled to Tampa, FL. In the afternoon, he traveled to Miami, and then to Bal Harbour, FL.
In the evening, the President attended a Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee reception at the Sheraton Bal Harbour Hotel. Later, he traveled to Orlando, FL.
The President announced he will award the Presidential Medal of Freedom at a White House ceremony on September 9 to the following individuals: Joseph Cardinal Bernardin, James Brady, Millard Fuller, David Hamburg, John H. Johnson, Eugene Lang, Jan Nowak-Jezioranski, Antonia Pantoja, Rosa Parks, Ginetta Sagan, and Morris Udall.
September 6
In the afternoon, the President attended a reception and luncheon for the Democratic National Committee and the Florida Democratic Party at Church Street Station. Later, he traveled to Panama City, FL, where he addressed the students of Gulf Coast Community College.
In the evening, the President attended a reception for Representative Pete Peterson in the Bay Gulf Franklin Room at Gulf Coast Community College. Later, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President declared a major disaster in North Carolina and ordered Federal aid to supplement recovery efforts in the areas struck by Hurricane Fran beginning on September 5 and continuing. The President also instructed Federal Emergency Management Agency Director James Lee Witt and a team of senior administration officials to travel to the region to assess damage and to ensure that all necessary Federal aid begins to flow to the region immediately.
The President declared a major disaster in Virginia and ordered Federal aid to supplement recovery efforts in the area struck by Hurricane Fran and associated severe storm conditions, including high winds, tornadoes, wind-driven rain, and river and flash flooding, beginning on September 5 and continuing.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alan H. Flanigan to be Deputy Director for Supply Reduction at the Office of National Drug Control Policy.
  