
    WASHINGTON – Congressman John K. Delaney (MD-6) has hired Iowa consultant John Davis as a Senior Advisor. For nearly 20 years, John Davis, an Iowa native, has worked for a wide variety of elected officials and candidates across the country, with a strong focus in Iowa. John has served in senior capacities on Presidential, Gubernatorial, U.S. Senate and U.S. House campaigns. Davis is a former Chief of Staff to Iowa Congressman Bruce Braley and a founding partner of the Des Moines based bipartisan polling firm Red America Blue America (RABA) Research.
"John Davis brings both national insight and Iowa expertise to our campaign. John knows Iowa from Council Bluffs to Dubuque, but he also knows that the concerns voters have in Iowa are also being felt around the country and that we need a new approach that's focused on the future," said Congressman Delaney. "We're excited to have John on our team and one of the benefits of getting in this race early is being able to bring on talented people like him."
"John Delaney's track record of bringing people together to solve big problems is exactly what the country needs right now. John embraces big ideas that will create change. I am excited to join his team," said Davis.
Congressman Delaney will attend and speak at the Audubon County Democratic Fundraiser Sunday in Audubon, Iowa and attend a meet and greet with Democratic voters in Council Bluffs on Monday. Delaney visited the Iowa State Fair with his family in August. Delaney is the first declared Democratic candidate for President in 2020. Last week, Delaney named Terry Lierman, former Chief of Staff to then Democratic Majority Leader Steny Hoyer and former Chair of the Maryland Democratic Party a campaign chair.
Congressman Delaney grew up in a blue-collar union household and his parents did not attend college. Delaney founded and led two-publicly traded companies and is the only former CEO of a publicly-traded company in the House. Due to his work crafting innovative legislation that uses revenues from international tax reform to rebuild America's infrastructure, Delaney was named one of the World's Greatest Leaders by Fortune Magazine in 2017. Delaney is a past winner of Ernst & Young's Entrepreneur of the Year Award and his business received the Bank Enterprise Award from the Obama Administration for investing in economically distressed communities. In Congress, Delaney has authored legislation to create a carbon tax, establish access to pre-K nationwide, end gerrymandering and protect veterans' credit scores. In 2015, GovTrack identified Delaney as one of the most bipartisan members of Congress. John and his wife April McClain-Delaney live in Potomac Maryland and have four daughters.
  