
    
"John McCain is a 'hero' to U.S. taxpayers for his lifetime record of resisting earmarks, while Barack Obama and Joe Biden are 'hostile' and 'unfriendly,' a government spending watchdog group has concluded. In its new report, the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste gave the Republican presidential nominee a 100 percent rating for his votes in the Senate last year, and a lifetime score of 88 percent." -- FOX News
"Report: McCain A 'Hero' To Taxpayers"
Stephen Clark
FOXNews.com
September 10, 2008
John McCain is a "hero" to U.S. taxpayers for his lifetime record of resisting earmarks, while Barack Obama and Joe Biden are "hostile" and "unfriendly," a government spending watchdog group has concluded.
In its new report, the Council for Citizens Against Government Waste gave the Republican presidential nominee a 100 percent rating for his votes in the Senate last year, and a lifetime score of 88 percent.
By comparison, the nonpartisan, nonprofit group, which is the lobbying arm of Citizens Against Government Waste, assigned Obama, the Democratic presidential nominee, 10 percent last year and a lifetime score of 18 percent. Biden, Obama's running mate, scored 0 percent last year and an overall score of 22 percent.
Higher scores mean stronger resistance to federal earmarks. Alaska Gov. Sarah Palin, the Republican vice presidential candidate, was not included because the ratings evaluate only members of Congress.
"In spite of a growing recognition that earmarks are a problem, Congress still spends more than is necessary," CCAGW President Tom Schatz said in a written statement. "Taxpayers would be wise to hang onto their wallets and demand that Congress refocus its priorities and cut wasteful spending."
The group has analyzed roll call votes since 1991 to distinguish members of Congress whom it describes as taxpayer advocates from those it says favor wasteful programs and pork-barrel spending. In the last year, the group rated 100 House votes and 35 Senate votes.
McCain scored 100 percent, but he failed to earn the Taxpayer Super Hero Award because he was present for only 11 of the 35 Senate votes.
Members of Congress are considered "superheroes" if they score a 100 percent rating; "heroes" earn between 80 and 99 percent; "friendly" members score between 60 and 79 percent; "lukewarm" lawmakers get between 40 and 59 percent; "unfriendly" members score between 20 and 39 percent, and "hostile" representatives and senators are measured between 0 and 19 percent.
Three GOP congressman -- Reps. Jeff Flake of Arizona, Jeb Hensarling of Texas and James Sensenbrenner of Wisconsin all earned superhero status.
The rankings were based on several tax-related and spending bills. Obama and Biden scored low for voting against banning the use of earmarks for a spending bill on bicycle paths or trails (McCain did not vote); and against extending Bush's tax cuts while McCain voted in favor of it.
Obama voted against prohibiting Congress from borrowing from the Social Security Trust Fund to finance other government programs (Biden and McCain did not vote). Obama and Biden voted against barring non-defense earmarks in spending bills for ongoing combat operations while McCain voted in favor of it.
Read The Article
  