
    Membership calls on the administration to begin responsible redeployment of American troops from Iraq
Manchester, NH -- Senator Barack Obama's New Hampshire campaign today announced the membership of the Obama for New Hampshire Veterans Steering Committee. The steering committee includes leaders of prominent veterans' services organizations and veterans of Vietnam and the ongoing war in Iraq. The steering committee will coordinate outreach and advise the campaign on veterans' and military issues.
"Senator Obama has a strong track record of fighting for veterans and their families as a member of the Senate Veterans Affairs Committee," steering committee member Mary Morin said. "Now, as a presidential candidate, he has pledged a comprehensive approach to upholding the sacred trust with our service members and their families, from the moment they enlist through their service and re-entry into society."
Obama has introduced a plan to improve mental health care at every stage of military service and expand the VA's capacity to treat psychological injury. As President, Obama will fully fund the VA, expand Vet Centers, revamp the current benefits system, and put in place a "zero tolerance" policy for homelessness among veterans. You can read more about Obama's plan HERE.
On the heels of Senator Obama major address on Iraq yesterday, the committee called on the Bush administration to stop redefining "success" in Iraq and to begin a responsible withdrawal of our troops.
"Our troops have done a tremendous job in Iraq, and we know they'll do whatever is asked of them-but it's time for the administration to come clean and acknowledge that no amount of American heroism is going to force Iraq's leaders to reconcile and end their civil war," steering committee member Kris Roberts said. "Senator Obama's plan to begin a phased withdrawal-made in consultation with our senior military leadership-will put pressure on the Iraqis to forge a political solution, and will allow us to be ready to confront new threats to the U.S. or our allies."
**Steering committee members are available to talk to the media. Please contact Reid Cherlin for details at (603) 668-2008.
Obama for New Hampshire Veterans Steering Committee
Ryan Gray - Sergeant, Marine Corps; served two tours in Iraq.
Goffstown, NH
Brian Hardy - Commander, Littleton VFW Post 816, Member of Congressman Hodes's Veterans Advisory Committee; served in U.S. Army, Vietnam combat infantry (1968-69) and nuclear weapons technician in Germany (1966-68). Awarded the Bronze Star, Air Medal, Good Conduct Medal and Combat Infantry Badge. Honorably discharged staff sergeant.
Dalton, NH
Larry Johnson - State Commander, Disabled American Veterans; Retired USAF Master
Sergeant, 22 years of service.
Dover, NH
Doug Micklon - Former State Commander, American Legion; served in U.S. Navy (1962-1966) aboard USS Franklin D. Roosevelt CAV 42.
Salem, NH
Mary Morin - Executive Director, New Hampshire State Veterans Council; Retired U.S. Air Force, 21 years active service.
Raymond, NH
Rep. Kris Roberts - Chairman, House State-Federal Relations and Veterans Affairs Committee; Retired United States Marine Corps Lt. Col. with almost 26 year of total service (21 years active duty), Vietnam veteran.
Keene, NH
John Rubery - Senior Vice Commander, New Hampshire Veterans of Foreign Wars; U.S Army, served two tours in Vietnam.
Amherst, NH
Bob Wayss - Former State Commander, Disabled American Veterans; Retired USAF, 20 years of service.
  