
    Today, after receiving the endorsement of the Actors' Equity Association, Hillary Clinton issued the following statement. This is the first time the professional stage actors and managers' union has endorsed any political candidate.
"I am honored to have earned the first-ever endorsement of the Actors' Equity Association.
"I have spent my life fighting to even the odds for those who have had the odds stacked against them. That means making it possible for every child to live up to his or her God-given potential, no matter where they come from, what they look like, or who they love. And, although this is an unusual thing for a candidate for President to say, it means working to create more love and kindness in our country.
"The Actors' Equity Association shares these core values. And I couldn't be prouder to have them standing with me in this election. The stakes could not be higher.
"From the beginning, Donald Trump has based his campaign on prejudice and paranoia. He has insulted immigrants and demeaned women. He has called for banning 1.5 million people from so much as entering this country because of their religion. He mocked and mimicked a reporter with a disability. He would appoint Supreme Court justices who would overturn marriage equality, and when the time came to choose a running-mate, he selected a man who signed a law that would have allowed Indiana businesses to discriminate against LGBT people.
"Donald Trump does not understand a basic truth about America: we are stronger together.
"Americans don't tear each other down—we lift each other up. We don't build walls—we break down barriers. Together, we'll fight to finally guarantee equal pay for women, protect workers' rights to organize and bargain collectively, and build an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top. We'll pass the Equality Act and make it illegal to discriminate against LGBT people in employment and housing—and we won't let up in the fight against HIV and AIDS until we reach the goal of an AIDS-free generation, which is finally in sight. We will face up to the reality of systemic racism and fix it—and we'll fight back against those who are trying to deny Americans their fundamental right to vote. "And above all, we will never forget that we are in this together, one nation, indivisible.
"The future we want is within our reach—let's build it together."
  