
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 2
The President announced his intention to nominate Barbara K. Bodine to be Ambassador to Yemen.
The President announced his intention to nominate Mayor Cardell Cooper of East Orange, NJ, to be Assistant Administrator for Solid Waste and Emergency Response at the Environmental Protection Agency.
The President announced his intention to nominate Daniel Fried to be Ambassador to Poland.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jane G. Gould to serve as Deputy Commissioner of the Social Security Administration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Richard J. Griffin to be Inspector General at the Department of Veterans Affairs.
The President announced his intention to nominate B. Lynn Pascoe for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Special Negotiator for Nagorno-Karabakh.
The President announced his intention to nominate Julia V. Taft to be Assistant Secretary of State for Population, Refugees, and Migration.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jeanette C. Takamura to serve as Assistant Secretary for Aging at the Department of Health and Human Services.
The President announced the recess appointment of Tadd Johnson as Chairman of the National Indian Gaming Commission at the Department of the Interior.
September 3
The President announced his intention to nominate Kathryn Walt Hall to be Ambassador to Austria.
The President announced his intention to nominate David Timothy Johnson to be the Head of the U.S. Delegation to the Organization on Security and Cooperation in Europe, with the rank of Ambassador.
The President announced his intention to nominate Tom McDonald to be Ambassador to Zimbabwe.
The President announced his intention to nominate Edward E. Schumaker III to be Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago.
The President announced his intention to appoint Charles R. Lee as Chair and Van B. Honeycutt as a member of the National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee.
September 4
The President announced his intention to nominate Stanley T. Escudero to be Ambassador to Azerbaijan.
The President announced his intention to nominate Ray Kammer to be Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology at the Department of Commerce.
The President announced his intention to appoint Phillip G. Lewis to the Board of Directors of the Mickey Leland National Urban Air Toxic Research Center.
September 5
The President announced his intention to nominate Thomas M. Foglietta to be Ambassador to Italy.
The President announced his intention to nominate Alphonse F. La Porta to be Ambassador to Mongolia.
  