
    "Incredible job being done by FEMA, first responders, law enforcement and all. Thank you!" – President Donald J. Trump
BOOTS ON THE GROUND: The Trump Administration mobilized thousands of Federal employees who are working to protect lives and restore power impacted by Hurricane Florence. 

Nearly 20,000 Federal employees have been mobilized to assist with Florence recovery. 
The Department of Energy is working with 40,000 individuals from 19 States and Canada to restore power to the region, and is seeing significant progress in its efforts. 
The United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) has deployed 136 personnel, successfully installing or pre-positioning over 110 generators, with more expected.
The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has conducted over 2,000 rescues in the region and is sheltering nearly 15,000 people.
The Department of Defense has assigned approximately 13,000 personnel to support the recovery, including some 6,000 active-duty personnel and more than 7,000 National Guardsmen.
The Coast Guard has over 3,000 personnel in 27 helicopters, 11 fixed wing aircraft, 14 cutters, and 35 shallow-water craft. To date the Coast Guard has saved over 400 lives and 200 pets. 
The National Guard has performed or supported more than 535 rescue and evacuation missions in North Carolina.
The Department of Health and Human Services and Centers for Disease Control have deployed dozens of teams to the region to treat the sick or injured and prevent illness.

GOVERNMENT-WIDE RESPONSE: The Trump Administration is conducting an ongoing and Government-wide effort response effort in the wake of Hurricane Florence. 

The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is beginning to assess more than 100 priority sites impacted by the storm.

EPA is deploying a Superfund reconnaissance team to conduct visual inspection of Superfund sites in North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. 


The Department of Veterans Affairs is moving to open facilities that were closed by the storm.
The Small Business Administration has announced assistance for homeowners, renters, and businesses of all sizes, and is opening a business recovery center. 
Federal authorities are working with private partners such as the American Red Cross, which has deployed 3,000 workers from across the country. 

PREPARED FOR FLORENCE: President Trump and his Administration were prepared for Hurricane Florence, prestaging numerous resources and planning Federal assistance. 

President Trump activated and prepositioned thousands of Federal employees, including more than 1,000 from FEMA, and worked with State and local partners to prepare.
President Trump approved emergency disaster declarations to allow for protective measures for North Carolina, South Carolina, and Virginia.

The President later approved Major Disaster declarations for North Carolina and South Carolina.


The Federal Government prepositioned huge amounts of resources in the area to help prepare.

FEMA forward-staged meals, water, cots, blankets, and other resources throughout the region ahead of Florence. 



  