
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Diabetes affects the health of perhaps 11 million Americans. It can strike suddenly or it can do subtle long-term damage to major organs. Fully half the people with diabetes do not know they have the disease.
During the last decade, our knowledge of diabetes has increased in the research laboratory. We now have a better understanding of this disease and its burdensome complications, but there is still much to learn. In addition, we still face the major challenge of transforming research advances into practical benefits for diabetes patients.
Diabetes is a public health problem that affects both sexes and all ages and races. Given the disability, the emotional toll, and the economic loss from diabetes—estimated at $14 billion per year in the United States—our priorities should continue to be research on this disease, how best to treat it, and how best to communicate this knowledge to those who need it most. Through the continued commitment and cooperation of private citizens and organizations, the scientific community, and Federal, State, and local government in the fight against diabetes, we will come closer to a cure and to better health for millions of Americans.
To increase public awareness of diabetes and to emphasize the need for continued research and educational efforts aimed at controlling and curing this disease, the Congress, by Senate Joint Resolution 44, has designated the month of November 1987 as "National Diabetes Month" and authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this month.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the month of November 1987 as National Diabetes Month. I call upon all government agencies and the people of the United States to observe this month with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  