
    In a rare national TV interview, Biden peddled falsehoods and outright lies 
BIDEN: "Look what [Trump's] tax cut did. The multi-billion dollar, trillion-dollar tax cut that went mainly to the very wealthy and to corporate America."
FACT: Similar claims from Democrats have been debunked; President Trump's tax cuts benefitted Americans at every income level, and are delivering important benefits for American families and workers.

82 percent of middle-income earners received a tax cut thanks to President Trump, and 65 percent of all taxpayers are estimated to have seen their taxes go down
The average family of four received a $2,000 tax cut, while also seeing benefits like the doubling of the child tax credit and lower energy bills
The Trump tax cuts are also helping workers, and are projected to create 1.4 million new jobs across all 50 states
As The New York Timeseven admitted, there is "little disagreement" by experts that "most people got a tax cut"

BIDEN: "Why did [Trump] insist that the 44 people we had [in China], while I and others are insisting that they go in and have access to see really what is happening, to know the detail. Why did he not insist on that?"
FACT: The Trump Administration first tried to get American officials into China in early January; Biden didn't call for sending experts into China until February 25, 50 days later

This often repeated claim by Biden has been repeatedly debunked by fact-checkers

The Washington Post fact checker gave Biden's claim three Pinocchios


CDC Director Robert Redfield offered to send CDC experts to China as early as January 4, and the issue was raised multiple times by Administration officials in the weeks after

President Trump personally raised the issue in a call with Chinese leader Xi Jinping


Biden did not call on China to admit U.S. experts until February 25, after U.S. officials were already on the ground

BIDEN: "... what we did in terms of taking a significant portion of the Navy – 60 percent – and getting it into Asia to make sure [China] could not control those sea lanes, which they were doing. What has Trump done? He's done nothing about it."
FACT: Unlike Biden, who has failed to stand up to China, President Trump has taken a strong stance against Chinese aggression in the South China Sea

The Trump Administration formally rejected China's claims in the South China Sea, a move the Obama-Biden Administration refused to take

Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that Beijing's claims to the South China Sea are "completely unlawful" and Beijing would not be allowed to "treat the South China Sea as its maritime empire"


Freedom of navigation operations in the South China Sea increased dramatically under President Trump, with a record number of exercises in 2019
President Trump sanctioned 24 Chinese companies for their role in helping the Chinese military in the South China Sea

BIDEN: "Remember, [Trump] didn't – he wasn't the one that pushed [USMCA]. The House amended the bill."
FACT: This is President Trump's USMCA, not Nancy Pelosi's.

As CNN's Jake Tapper pointed out, President Trump successfully negotiated the USMCA to replace the disastrous NAFTA trade deal
Meanwhile, House Democrats delayed a vote on it for a year while America's workers and businesses waited
Unlike Biden, who pledged to renegotiated NAFTA but then failed to do so, President Trump delivered a new trade deal to help America's economy and workers

USMCA will create an estimated 176,000 new American jobs and boost the economy



BIDEN: "And he calls them losers? He calls them suckers?"
FACT:At least 14 officials who were on the trip to France with President Trump have gone on the record to refute the anonymous sources and allegations in The Atlantic article:

Sarah Sanders, former White House Press Secretary: "The Atlantic story on @realDonaldTrump is total BS. I was actually there and one of the people part of the discussion - this never happened."
Hogan Gidley, former White House Deputy Press Secretary: "These are disgusting, grotesque, reprehensible lies. I was there in Paris and the President never said those things."
Dan Scavino, White House Deputy Chief Of Staff for Communications: "I was with POTUS in France, with Sarah, and have been at his side throughout it all. Complete lies by 'anonymous sources'..."
Jordan Karem, former Personal Aide to President Trump: "This is not even close to being factually accurate. plain and simple, it just never happened."

Karem: "Again, this is 100% false. I was next to @POTUS the whole day! The President was greatly disappointed when told we couldn't fly there. He was incredibly eager to honor our Fallen Heroes."


Johnny DeStefano, former Counselor to the President: "I was on this trip. The Atlantic bit is not true. Period."
John Bolton, former National Security Advisor: "'I didn't hear that,' Mr. Bolton said in an interview. 'I'm not saying he didn't say them later in the day or another time but I was there for that discussion.'"
Stephen Miller, White House Senior Adviser: The accusation is a "despicable lie ... The president deeply wanted to attend the memorial event in question and was deeply displeased by the bad weather call."
Tony Ornato, White House Deputy Chief of Staff and then-Head of the Secret Service's Presidential Protective Detail has said the story is false.
Derek Lyons, Staff Secretary and Counselor to the President: "I was with the President the morning after the scheduled visit. He was extremely disappointed that arrangements could not be made to get him to the site, and that the trip had been cancelled."
Dan Walsh, former White House Deputy Chief Of Staff: "I can attest to the fact that there was a bad weather call in France, and that the helicopters were unable to safely make the flight."
Zach Fuentes, former White House Deputy Chief of Staff: "I did not hear POTUS call anyone losers when I told him about the weather."
First Lady Melania Trump: "@TheAtlantic story is not true. It has become a very dangerous time when anonymous sources are believed above all else, & no one knows their motivation. This is not journalism - It is activism. And it is a disservice to the people of our great nation."
Jamie McCourt, U.S. Ambassador to France and Monaco: "In my presence, POTUS has NEVER denigrated any member of the U.S. military or anyone in service to our country. And he certainly did not that day, either. Let me add, he was devastated to not be able to go to the cemetery at Belleau Wood. In fact, the next day, he attended and spoke at the ceremony in Suresnes in the pouring rain."?
Major General William Matz (ret.), Secretary of the American Battle Monuments Commission: "I was the host of the event discussed by the false and despicable article published in The Atlantic magazine on 3 September. On 10 November 2018, I was at the Aisne-Marne American Cemetery awaiting the arrival of President Trump. As a former Army infantryman who has flown on many helicopters, I knew that morning the weather was bad and the ceiling was too low for a safe landing that day. When the President's visit was appropriately canceled due to weather, I received word also that he was upset he would not be able to make the wreath-laying visit and to pay his respect to the 2300 fallen soldiers and Marines interred there. ... Those who know President Trump know that the anonymous smears peddled by The Atlantic have no basis in fact or reality, and do a terrible disservice to journalism and to our veterans, living and deceased." 

Additionally, The Atlantic's reporting has been refuted by a White House email and Navy documents that directly show a "bad weather call" was the reason for the canceled presidential trip to Aisne-Marne cemetery in 2018.
BIDEN: "[Trump] won't put on a mask. He's talking about, it's ridiculous to put on masks."
FACT: President Trump has strongly advocated that Americans wear masks, and he has worn one himself many times.

In March, President Trump recommended that people could use a scarf as a mask
In April, President Trump announced that the CDC was recommending wearing face masks
In July, President Trump recommended that all Americans wear masks "whether they like the mask or not"
In July, President Trump tweeted a photo of himself wearing a mask and said wearing masks is patriotic

BIDEN: "We had firm, firm constraints on what [North Korea] could buy and what they could sell in their economies. He's blown it."
FACT: President Trump has not lifted sanctions on North Korea

President Trump has repeatedly imposed and extended existing sanctions against North Korea
The Trump Administration has opposed efforts by other countries, including China and Russia, to lift sanctions against North Korea

  