
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals to be members of the National Highway Safety Advisory Committee.
The following individuals to serve for terms expiring March 15, 1985:
Walter W. Gray, Jr., of Terre Haute, Ind., is professor of health and safety and director of the Indiana State University driver and traffic safety program. He will succeed Francis H. Goodwin.
Henry Edward Hudson, of Arlington, Va., is the Commonwealth's attorney for Arlington County, Va. He will succeed John C. Landen.
Paul R. Meyer, Jr., of Wilmette, Ill., is professor of orthopedic surgery and director of the spinal cord injury program at Northwestern University Medical School. He will succeed Deborah D. Richards.
The following individuals for terms expiring March 15, 1986:
G. Lawrence Keller, of Wichita, Kans., is a consultant and former senior vice president of the Coleman Co. This is a reappointment.
John W. Ruger, of Katonan, N.Y., retired in 1977 after 37 years of service to the General Motors Acceptance Corp. This a reappointment.
Melville P. Windle, of Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif., is vice president and general counsel for the Transamerica Insurance Co. This is a reappointment.
Peter Griskivich, of Washington, D.C., is vice president of the motor truck manufacturers division of the Motor Vehicle Manufacturers Association. This is a reappointment.
Thomas Kallay, of Santa Monica, Calif., is professor of law at Southwestern University School of Law in Los Angeles, Calif. He will succeed J. T. Quigg.
Don MacGillivray, of Santa Barbara, Calif., is former mayor of Santa Barbara and a former State legislator. He will succeed Philip Theodore Abraham.
Alan G. Loofbourrow, of North Key Largo, Fla., is a retired Chrysler Corp. executive, engineer, and inventor. He will succeed Patricia Fossum Waller.
Paul D. Coverdell, of Atlanta, Ga., is a State senator from Georgia. He will succeed Walter W. Gray.
John L. Moriarity, of Calabasas Park, Calif., is a private trial attorney at the Van Nuys Law Center. He will succeed Henry Edward Hudson.
Margaret L. Nordyke, of Santa Barbara, Calif., was developer/coordinator of the Santa Barbara County "Alternate Behavior for the Drinking Driver" program at Santa Barbara City College. She will succeed Paul R. Meyer, Jr.
  