
    FRANK, I appreciate your undertaking this responsibility, with your other minor chores, as far as the executive branch is concerned. And I am deeply grateful to Mike and John Anderson. I guess John couldn't get here. We even have Alan over here to handle all the financial affairs.
But from my own point of view, I got interested in what we call the United Fund out home when I was right out of law school and worked on our program, Lew, through many years. I happen to feel very strongly that in each community throughout the country, there has to be a total effort by management, labor, professions, all segments of our society, to make a campaign truly representative of what needs to be done for those less well-off than ourselves.
When you look at the wide range of community organizations for youth, for the aged, for those who are ill, those that need recreation, the United Fund or the organization, the combined Federal effort is essential if we are going to make it go here in Washington.
It is a different kind of a campaign here than it is in many other communities. And so, the Federal Government participation--the many, many people who work for Uncle Sam have a special responsibility. We don't have the big industries in some communities that can make a maximum contribution. We don't have some of the other sources that are easily available in many communities. So, what we do in the executive branch and what is done in the Congress will make or break this campaign.
And as I look around the room and see those who have assumed the responsibility, I know we can make it go. And I always like to pay my bills promptly. So, Frank, I will give you--I guess it is sealed and you hadn't better open it-[laughter]--my own personal contribution to get it kicked off in the right way.
MR. ZARB. Thank you, Mr. President. I think we ought to give you a CFC button to wear.
THE PRESIDENT. Thank you all. And I appreciate, Mike, your doing it on the Senate side. I know it will be successful there, and John Anderson will do equally well in the House. And with Frank and everybody else, I am certain the executive branch will do its full share.
Thank you very, very much.
  