
    Memorandum for the Secretary of State:
SUBJECT: Action to Combat Terrorism
Your report to me on the measures that are being taken to combat terrorism indicates that we are moving effectively against the problem of thwarting acts of terrorism both here and abroad. The two committees you have set up to cope with this major problem are making commendable progress toward this end.
Because of the great importance and urgency I attach to dealing with the worldwide problem of terrorism, which encompasses diplomatic, intelligence, and law enforcement functions, I am hereby establishing a Cabinet Committee to Combat Terrorism.
The Cabinet Committee will be chaired by the Secretary of State and will comprise
The Secretary of State
The Secretary of the Treasury
The Secretary of Defense
The Attorney General
The Secretary of Transportation
The United States Ambassador to the United Nations
The Director of Central Intelligence
The Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
The Assistant to the President for Domestic Affairs
The Acting Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and such others as the Chairman may consider necessary.
The Cabinet Committee will be supported by a Working Group comprised of personally designated senior representatives of the members of the Committee, chaired by the designee of the Secretary of State.
The Committee will consider the most effective means by which to prevent terrorism here and abroad, and it will also take the lead in establishing procedures to ensure that our government can take appropriate action in response to acts of terrorism swiftly and effectively. The Secretary of State will be in touch with other governments and international organizations toward this goal.
Federal officers and Federal departments and agencies are to cooperate fully with the Cabinet Committee in carrying out its functions under this directive, and they shall comply with the policies, guidelines, standards, and procedures prescribed by the Cabinet Committee.
More specifically, the Cabinet Committee shall:
(1) Coordinate, among the government agencies, ongoing activity for the prevention of terrorism. This will include such activities as the collection of intelligence worldwide and the physical protection of U.S. personnel and installations abroad and foreign diplomats, and diplomatic installations in the United States.
(2) Evaluate all such programs and activities and where necessary recommend methods for their effective implementation.
(3) Devise procedures for reacting swiftly and effectively to acts of terrorism that occur.
(4) Make recommendations to the Director of the Office of Management and Budget concerning proposed funding of such programs; and
(5) Report to the President, from time to time, concerning the foregoing.
RICHARD NIXON
  