
    Bayh Will Serve As National Campaign Co-Chair
The Clinton Campaign today announced the endorsement of Indiana Senator Evan Bayh and named him a national Campaign Co-Chair.
"Hillary Clinton is a seasoned, experienced leader who will be ready to lead this country on Day One," Bayh said. "She will run the kind of campaign and administration that will appeal to all corners of America, emphasizing national security and middle class economic progress."
Sens. Bayh and Clinton are members of the Senate Armed Services Committee and have traveled together to Iraq, Afghanistan and Pakistan and met with the Presidents of those countries.
First elected to the Senate in 1998, Sen. Bayh has earned a reputation as a bipartisan problem solver, committed to strengthening our national security, growing small businesses to create new jobs and encouraging responsible fatherhood.
"I have seen firsthand how effective she is interacting with global leaders and the respect she commands," Bayh said. "I believe that her approach to our national security challenges will be strong but also more effective, because it will be more thoughtful and comprehensive than the current administration's. Senator Clinton is both tough and smart."
Prior to being elected to the Senate, Sen. Bayh served two terms as Governor of Indiana, where he established a track record of fiscal responsibility and economic growth, passing the largest tax cut in state history and creating 350,000 new jobs. Prior to being elected Governor, Sen. Bayh served as Indiana's Secretary of State.
Sen. Bayh currently serves on five committees: Banking Housing and Urban Affairs, on which he is the Chairman of the Subcommittee on International Trade and Finance; Armed Services; the Select Committee on Intelligence; the Special Committee on Aging; and the Small Business Committee.
"In an increasingly rancorous political environment, Evan has consistently reached across the aisle to tackle our nation's toughest challenges and get results," Clinton said. "I'm honored to have his support as we bring our message of change across the country."
  