
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

The United Nations was born out of the massive human suffering and destruction caused by the Second World War. From the outset, the United States, one of the principal architects and founders of the United Nations, has worked to make it a forum for debate among all peace-loving nations and to support its purpose of preventing war and conflict through conciliation and cooperation. Because that goal has not been fully achieved and because the U.N. has been misused, today's world is too often fraught with strife, division, and conflict. But, despite the abuse and shortcomings, the United Nations can still be instrumental in facilitating and overseeing agreements to end conflict, in providing a center for reducing tensions through dialogue and debate, and in addressing the problems of underdevelopment which can spur conflict.
Americans can take pride in having provided significant moral, political, and financial support for the United Nations since its inception. That support will be maintained and the United States will continue to play a prominent role in the organization, using it to champion the values and ideals which underlie our own society and which originally helped to inspire the formation of the United Nations.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby designate Sunday, October 24, 1982, as United Nations Day. On this day I urge all Americans to better acquaint themselves with the activities and accomplishments of the United Nations.
I have appointed Robert Anderson to serve as 1982 United States National Chairman for United Nations Day and welcome the role of the United Nations Association of the United States of America in working with him to celebrate this special day.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this 14th day of Sept., in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eightytwo, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventh.

RONALD REAGAN
  