
    Pool Reports by S.V. Dáte, HuffPost 



Sent:
Reports:




September 29, 202309:06

WH pool report 1 -- checking in
Good misty and cloudy morning from the White House, where the only public event of the day for the president is a ceremony marking the end of Army Gen. Mark Milley's tenure as the 20th chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the start of that of newly confirmed Air Force Gen. Charles Q. Brown, Jr.
That event will take place at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall across the river in Arlington this morning.
President Biden is scheduled to speak at 1030.
Gen. Milley was recently accused by former President Donald Trump of "an act so egregious that, in times gone by, the punishment would have been DEATH!"
Gen. Milley has since said he would take "appropriate measures" to ensure his family's safety.



September 29, 202309:53

WH pool report 2 — holding for departure
Pool has been loaded into the press vans on the South Lawn driveway and we are awaiting President Biden's emergence from the South Portico.
The president's remarks at the event will be streamed from the WH web site here:



September 29, 202310:12

WH pool report 3 — motorcade moving
President Biden stepped into his waiting limousine and at 1010, the president's motorcade is en route to Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall.



September 29, 202310:22

WH pool report 4 — arrival at Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall
The motorcade arrived at the Joint Base Myer-Henderson Hall at 1018 after an eight-minute, five-mile drive past the Kennedy Center and across the Potomac.
Pool was led to Summerall Field, where the ceremony will take place.
Reminder that the president's remarks can be watched here:
https://youtube.com/watch?v=SoZ80Hz52vE



September 29, 202310:26

WH pool report 5 — WH delegation
Per the WH press office:
The Vice PresidentThe Second GentlemanJeff Zients, Assistant to the President & Chief of StaffJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsMike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentJon Finer, Assistant to the President & Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsLiz Sherwood-Randall, Assistant to the President & Homeland Security Advisor & Deputy National Security AdvisorCara Abercrombie, Deputy Assistant to the President & Coordinator for Defense Policy and Arms ControlJohn Kirby, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Coordinator for Strategic CommunicationAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office OperationsCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & NSC Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic InitiativesTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorJason Israel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Defense Policy and Strategy



September 29, 202310:35

WH pool report 6 — color from site
We are gathered on Summerall Field, which is the size of a football field.
There is a brick reviewing stand where a lectern bearing the presidential seal has been placed.
On the field are color guards from each of the service branches in their dress uniforms.
A battery of four artillery pieces has been arranged at the southeast corner of the field.
At 1033, Gens. Milley and Brown were introduced to the audience, who have seats under large green awnings.



September 29, 202310:37

WH pool report 7 — run of show
Per the WH press office:
The President is delivering remarks at the Armed Forces Farewell Tribute in honor of General Mark A. Milley, 20th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and participating in an Armed Forces Hail in honor of General Charles Q. Brown, Jr., the 21st Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
AttendeesThe Vice PresidentThe Second GentlemanT.H. Lloyd Austin III, Secretary of DefenseT.H. Kathleen Hicks, Deputy Secretary of DefenseT.H. Christine Wormuth, Secretary of the ArmyT.H. Carlos Del Toro, Secretary of the NavyT.H. Frank Kendall, Secretary of the Air ForceGeneral Mark Milley, USA, 20th Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffGeneral Charles Brown, USAF, 21st Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffAdmiral Christopher Grady, USN, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffGeneral Randy George, USA, Chief of Staff of the ArmyGeneral Eric Smith, USMC, Commandant of the Marine CorpsAdmiral Lisa Franchetti, USN, Vice Chief of Naval OperationsGeneral Daniel Hokanson, USNGB, Chief of the National Guard BureauAdmiral Linda Fagan, USCG, Commandant of the Coast GuardGeneral Chance Saltzman, USSF, Chief of Space Operations, U.S. Space ForceSEAC Ramon Colon-Lopez, Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of StaffSMA Michael Weimer, USA, Sergeant Major of the ArmySMMC Carlos Ruiz, USMC, Sergeant Major of the Marine CorpsCMSAF JoAnne Bass, USAF, Chief Master Sergeant of the Air ForceSEA Tony Whitehead, USNGB, Senior Enlisted Advisor to the Chief, National Guard BureauMCPOCG Heath Jones, USCG, Master Chief Petty Officer of the Coast GuardCMSSF John Bentivegna, USSF, Chief Master Sergeant of the Space Force
Run of ShowColonel David Kelley, U.S. Air Force, Joint Staff Chaplain, delivers an invocationTroop inspection conducted by General Milley, escorted by the Parade CommanderGeneral Brown is sworn in by General MilleySecretary Lloyd Austin delivers remarksThe President delivers remarksGeneral Charles Brown delivers remarksGeneral Mark Milley delivers remarksCommander Steve May reads "The Watch"Troop formation march in Pass in Review



September 29, 202311:21

WH pool report 8 — Biden remarks begin
The combined Armed Forces Tribute for Gen. Milley and Armed Forces Hail for Gen. Brown began at 1035 with a 19-gun salute from three of guns on the field.
At 1053, Milley swore in Brown as the 21st chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
Milley's retirement from the Army was announced, and his wife was honored for her service, as well.
Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin spoke starting at 1105.
President Biden came to the lectern at 1119.



September 29, 202311:22

WH pool report 9 — Biden remarks re Feinstein
"She was a historic figure, and a great friend."
The president, speaking at a tribute to retiring chairman of the Joint Chiefs Mark Milley, said he would have more to say about Sen. Feinstein later.



September 29, 202311:35

WH pool report 10 — Biden criticizes Tuberville, House Republicans
The president started by acknowledging Sen. Feinstein's death and saying he would say more about her later.
He then praised Gen. Milley, hitting some highlights of his career and noting that Milley's "north star" was the Constitution and "the idea of America."
"That's what we swear an oath to."
He welcomed Air Force Gen. C.Q. Brown as the new chairman of the joint staffs.
Biden then, without naming him, criticized "a single senator" and the 47 others who remain silent for holding up promotions and appointments of military officers.
"It's totally unacceptable that more than 300 military officers and reservists are held in limbo."
"It's an insult."
Biden then criticized House Republicans for potentially shutting down the government, which he said would hurt device members.
"You can't be playing politics while our troops stand in the breach."
He finished speaking at 1133.



September 29, 202312:01

WH pool report 11 — Milley's quote about "wanna be dictator"
Newly sworn in Gen. C.Q. Brown spoke after the president, and he was followed by Gen. Milley.
In his remarks, Milley also spoke about American democracy, the Constitution, and the oath to protect it from "ALL enemies, foreign AND domestic."
(Emphasis his.)
"We don't take an oath to a wannabe-dictator."
"And we are not easily intimidated."



September 29, 202312:22

WH pool report 12 — back in motorcade
Pool was led off the field and back to the motorcade as the ceremony wrapped.
At 1222 we're rolling back toward the White House.



September 29, 202312:31

WH pool report 13 — back at WH
The president's motorcade pulled back onto the South Lawn at 1229.
President Biden presumably walked into the residence, as that is where the limo was parked.
Yes, your pooler is aware that the briefing was supposed to start at 1230. No, your pooler does not know when it will actually start.



September 29, 202312:40

WH pool report 14 -- 2 min warning for press briefing
Came at 1239.



September 29, 202312:44

WH pool report 15 -- briefing begins
Press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre took the podium with OMB director Shalanda Young at 1241.



September 29, 202313:40

WH pool report 16 -- daily briefing over
OMB director Shalanda Young left the room at 1315 after speaking and taking questions about the possible/likely government shutdown.
Karine Jean-Pierre continued taking questions until 1340.



September 29, 202313:52

WH pool report 17 -- flags at half staff for Sen. Feinstein
Flagging the release that just went out ordering flags at half staff until Sen. Feinstein's burial.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICAA PROCLAMATIONSenator Dianne Feinstein was a pioneering American and a true trailblazer. In San Francisco, she showed enormous poise and courage in the wake of tragedy, and became a powerful voice for American values. In the United States Senate, she turned passion into purpose, and led the fight to ban assault weapons, also making her mark on everything from national security to the environment to protecting civil liberties. Senator Feinstein was a role model for so many Americans and she had an immense impact on younger female leaders for whom she generously opened doors. She was a historic figure, and our country will benefit from her legacy for generations.
As a mark of respect for the memory of Senator Dianne Feinstein, by the authority vested in me as President of the United States by the Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, I hereby order that the flag of the United States shall be flown at half-staff at the White House and upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions until sunset, on the day of interment. I also direct that the flag shall be flown at half-staff for the same length of time at all United States embassies, legations, consular offices, and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and naval vessels and stations.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.



September 29, 202314:56

WH pool report 18 -- lid
The WH press office announced a lid for the day at 1454.
Have a good weekend, everyone. Enjoy working on your starter motor solenoids.



September 29, 202319:18

WH pool report 19 — President Carter's birthday
Per the WH press office:
In honor of President Carter's 99th birthday this weekend, the north lawn of the White House will feature a three-tiered red, white, and blue wooden cake display, topped with 39 red, white, and blue candles (a nod to President Carter being America's 39th President), with the message "Happy Birthday President Carter." The display will be installed this evening (9/29) and will remain through the weekend.




  