
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate Floor)(Sponsors: Byrd (D), West Virginia; Harkin (D), Iowa)
This Statement of Administration Policy provides the Administration's views on H.R. 2518, the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Bill, FY 1994, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee. The Administration supports Senate passage of H.R. 2518 as reported by the Committee and will work with Congress to address the concerns described below.
President's Investment Program
The Administration appreciates the Committee's funding of high-priority investment proposals within the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. Although we requested additional funds for Head Start, Immunization, Goals 2000 and School to Work, we understand the constraints facing the Committee. These programs remain a high priority and the Administration will work with the conferees in support of these programs.
The Administration is pleased that the Committee has fully funded most of the President's investment proposals for the National Institutes of Health (NTH) and for the Social Security Administration's disability payments. The Administration is also pleased that the Committee has provided a large increase in funding for programs authorized under the Ryan White CARE Act.
FTE Floors
The Administration appreciates the decision to strike from the Committee bill provisions that would have mandated specific FTE levels for the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, and Education. This action is consistent with the intent of the President's Executive Order on FTE reductions and the recommendations for reduction of the Federal workforce contained in the report of the National Performance Review.
Funding for Abortions
The Administration is pleased that the Committee has not included a provision that would prohibit the use of Federal funds to pay for abortions for eligible low-income recipients.
Social Security Administration
The administration is concerned about the provision of the Committee bill dealing with the Social Security Administration's Limitation on Administrative Expenses. The provision would reduce funding from the HI and SMI trust funds for Social Security Administration work on behalf of Medicare beneficiaries by $200 million and increase OASDI payments by the same amount.
The intent of this provision is unclear. Its effect would be to use OASDI funds for FY 1994 costs attributable to Medicare administrative activities. This one-time subsidy would not be reversed in the future absent legislative language to restore the funds to the OASDI trust funds.
  