
    Pool Reports by Todd J. Gillman, The Dallas Morning News 



Sent:
Reports:




September 6, 202209:32

Pool report #1/Raimondo will be at briefing
Good morning.
From the Press Office:
Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo will join Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre at the press briefing today.



September 6, 202212:10

Pool report #2/Sept. 11 details
2 minute warning for the briefing.
And from the Press Office
On September 11th, the President, the First Lady, the Vice President and the Second Gentleman will travel across the country to honor and remember the victims of the September 11th terror attack. The President will deliver remarks and attend a wreath laying ceremony at the Pentagon, the First Lady will attend and deliver remarks at the Flight 93 National Memorial Observance in Shanksville, Pennsylvania, and the Vice President and Second Gentleman will travel to New York, New York to participate in a commemoration ceremony at the National September 11th Memorial.



September 6, 202213:19

Pool report #3/Cabinet spray
Pool entered the Cabinet Room at 1:19pm



September 6, 202213:32

Pool report #4/Biden remarks at Cabinet meeting
"I'm not a big fan of trickle down economics..."
Despite all the spending "We've still reduced the deficit substantially."
Touts lower RX costs and health care premiums.
Notes that he's heading
On Fridat ground breaking in Ohio of state of the
"We're finally bringing home jobs that have been overseas for a while."
Notes absence of Mitch Landrieu because his dad died yesterday. "His dad was a hell of a guy... way ahead of everyone dealing with racial equity in the South."
Notes that John Podesta is here. First day on the job. Podesta seated behind the pool along the wall under the FDR photo. "John's a good friend."
"I'll be speaking with the new prime minister at 3:30"... (re British PM)
Will you see Xi at G20?
"If he's there I'm sure I'll see him."
Pool out at 1:27pm, less than 8 minutes after entering, after lots of shouted questions, nearly all ignored, and lots of shouting by wranglers shooing us out.



September 6, 202213:34

pool report #5/Cabinet meeting attendees
Participating in a Cabinet Meeting with the President:

The Vice President
Secretary of State Antony Blinken
Secretary of the Treasury Janet Yellen
Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin
Attorney General Merrick Garland
Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack
Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo
Secretary of Labor Marty Walsh
Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Marcia Fudge
Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg
Secretary of Energy Jennifer Granholm
Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency Michael Regan
Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines
U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai
U.S. Representative to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield
Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers Cecilia Rouse
Administrator of the Small Business Administration Isabel Guzman
Director of the Office of Management and Budget Shalanda Young
Ron Klain, Assistant to the President & Chief of Staff




September 6, 202214:12

pool report #6/lunch lid until 3pm
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]



September 6, 202215:35

pool report #7/lid
A lid has been declared.




  