
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Obama nominated John Kammerzell, Mark Martinez and Stephen James Smith to be U.S. Marshals. Kammerzell is a nominee for the District of Colorado, Martinez for the District of Nebraska and Smith for the Southern District of Georgia.
"Throughout their careers, these nominees have displayed courageous and selfless dedication to protecting their fellow Americans," said President Obama. "They have risked their own lives time and again to protect ours, and they have been relentless in their pursuit of justice. I am honored to nominate them today to serve our country as U.S. Marshals."
John Kammerzell: Nominee for the District of Colorado
John Kammerzell is the Director of the Colorado Department of Law's Peace Officer Standards and Training Board, a position he has held since 1999. He is a former Undersheriff and Patrol Division Commander in the Larimer County Sheriff's Office, Executive Director of the County Sheriffs of Colorado, Sheriff of Rio Grande County, and Colorado State Trooper. He served in the United States Air Force from 1968 until 1971, when he was honorably discharged. He received his G.E.D. in 1972.
Mark Martinez: Nominee for the District of Nebraska
Mark Martinez served in the Omaha Police Department from 1984 until his retirement in March 2009, first as a police officer, and later as Sergeant, Lieutenant, Captain, and Deputy Chief. He is also an adjunct instructor for the University of Nebraska at Omaha. He received a B.S. and a Master of Science in Criminal Justice from the University of Nebraska at Omaha in 1982 and 1993, respectively.
Stephen James Smith: Nominee for the Southern District of Georgia
A 28-year veteran of the Savannah Police Department, Stephen James Smith currently works as a court security officer for a private security company. During his tenure with the Savannah Police Department, he rose to the rank of Captain, and from 1996 to 2002 he served as Commander of the Chatham-Savannah Counter Narcotics Team. From 2002 to 2005, he was Chief of Police for the town of Thunderbolt, Georgia, and from 2005 to 2007, was Chief of Police for the Memorial Health University Medical Center. He received two Bronze Stars and a Purple Heart for his service in the U.S. Army in Vietnam from 1967 to 1969. He received a B.S. and an M. Sc. from Armstrong Atlantic State University in 1975 and 1987, respectively, and graduated from the FBI National Academy in 1990. Smith also received a Fulbright Scholarship in 1995.
  