
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and appoint four individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Harvey E. Johnson, Jr., of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator and Chief Operating Officer of the Federal Emergency Management Agency at the Department of Homeland Security. Vice Admiral Johnson currently serves as Deputy Director and Chief Operating Officer of the Federal Emergency Management Agency of Department of Homeland Security. Prior to this, he served as Vice Admiral and Coast Guard Commander of the Pacific Area in the United States Coast Guard. Earlier in his career, he served as Executive Director of the Coast Guard's transition into the Department of Homeland Security. Vice Admiral Johnson received his bachelor's degree from the Coast Guard Academy. He received his master's degrees from the Naval Post Graduate School and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
The President intends to nominate Vincent Obsitnik, of Virginia, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Slovak Republic. Mr. Obsitnik recently served as Vice President of International Development at Litton/PRC Corporation. Prior to this, he served as President of the System Development Division at Unisys/Loral Corporation. Earlier in his career, Mr. Obsitnik served as Director of Manufacturing for Latin America at the IBM Corporation. He also previously served as a Member of the United States Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad. Mr. Obsitnik received his bachelor's degree from the United States Naval Academy and his master's degree from The American University.
The President intends to nominate Todd J. Zinser, of Virginia, to be Inspector General at the Department of Commerce. Mr. Zinser currently serves as Deputy Inspector General of the Department of Transportation. Prior to this, he served as Assistant Inspector General for Investigations at the Department of Transportation. Earlier in his career, he served as Deputy Regional Administrator of the Office of Labor Management Standards at the Department of Labor. Mr. Zinser received his bachelor's degree from Northern Kentucky University and his master's degree from Miami University of Ohio.
The President intends to nominate Walter Lukken, of Indiana, to be Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Mr. Lukken currently serves as Commissioner and Acting Chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. Prior to this, he served as a Professional Staff Member of the United States Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry. Earlier in his career, he served as a Legislative Assistant in the office of United States Senator Richard Lugar. Mr. Lukken received his bachelor's degree from Indiana University and his JD from Lewis and Clark College.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation:
John A. Garcia, of New Mexico, (General Public), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 06/10/09; Julia A. King, of Maryland, (Historic Preservation Expert), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 06/10/11; Thomas R. Miller, of Tennessee, (Mayor), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 06/10/09; Ann A. Pritzlaff, of Colorado, (Historic Preservation Expert), for the remainder of a four-year term expiring 06/10/11.
  