
    WASHINGTON, DC - Today, President Obama nominated Judge Julie Rebecca Breslow, Deborah J. Israel, and Carmen Guerricagoitia McLean to serve on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia.
"I am pleased to nominate Judge Julie Rebecca Breslow, Deborah J. Israel, and Carmen Guerricagoitia McLean to serve on the Superior Court of the District of Columbia," said President Obama. "I am confident they will serve the District of Columbia with integrity and a steadfast commitment to justice."
Judge Julie Rebecca Breslow: Nominee for the Superior Court for the District of Columbia 
Judge Julie Rebecca Breslow has served as a Magistrate Judge on the Superior Court for the District of Columbia since 2002. Prior to joining the Superior Court, from 1999 to 2002, Judge Breslow served as the Chief of the Victim Witness Assistance Unit at the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia. From 1998 to 1999 she served as an Attorney Advisor for the Law Enforcement Coordinating Committee/Victim Witness Staff at the Executive Office for United States Attorneys. From 1995 to 1998, she served as the Director of the Court Services Unit, Office of the General Counsel for the General Receiver, at the District of Columbia Child and Family Services Agency. In 1995, she worked as an associate at Freer and McGarry P.C. (no longer operational) in Washington, D.C. From 1990 to 1995, she served as Assistant Corporation Counsel at the Office of the Corporation Counsel for the District of Columbia (now the Attorney General's Office) in the Child Abuse and Neglect, Juvenile Delinquency, and Child Support and Paternity Enforcement sections. Judge Breslow began her career serving as a law clerk to Administrative Law Judge Edward Terhune Miller in Washington, D.C. from 1989 to 1990. She received her J.D. from Albany Law School in 1989 and her B.A. magna cum laude from Union College in 1987.
Deborah J. Israel: Nominee for the Superior Court for the District of Columbia 
Deborah J. Israel has been a partner in the Washington, D.C. office of Womble Carlyle Sandridge & Rice, LLP since 2004, where she represents clients from the banking, real estate, manufacturing, and publishing industries. Israel also serves as the firm's Chief Operating Partner and the Chair of the D.C. office litigation practice. Prior to joining Womble Carlyle Sandridge & Rice, LLP, Israel was a partner at several Washington, D.C. law firms, including Piper Rudnick LLP (now DLA Piper) (1998-2004) and Silverstein and Mullens LLP (1995-1998). She was also an associate at Silverstein and Mullens LLP and at Colton and Boykin LLP (1993-1995) in Washington, D.C. Israel began her career as an associate at Melrod, Redman & Gartlan LLP in Washington, D.C. She received her J.D. from Rutgers School of Law in 1990 and her B.A. with honors from Rutgers University in 1986.
Carmen Guerricagoitia McLean: Nominee for the Superior Court for the District of Columbia 
Carmen Guerricagoitia McLean has been a partner at the Washington, D.C. office of Jones Day since 2011, where she represents multinational companies in matters relating to contract, copyright, tort, and antitrust disputes. McLean began her career as an associate at Jones Day in 2001. She is active in firm management and leadership and currently serves as the Co-Chair of the Diversity Committee and as the Pro Bono and Public Service Partner for Jones Day's Washington, D.C. office. In 2012, she received the Pro Bono Lawyer of the Year Award from the District of Columbia Bar. McLean received her J.D. from Georgetown University Law Center in 2001 and her B.Sc. from George Fox University in 1998.
  