
    Pool Reports by Shira Moolten, South Florida Sun Sentinel 



Sent:
Reports:




September 28, 202314:23

VP pool report #1: FIU arrival
Hello from Miami!
VP arrived at Florida International University's Ocean Convocation Center arena at 2:02 p.m.
The arena seats 5,000 people and was full. Students were already lined up outside at 11:30 a.m.
The conversation, the sixth stop on her "Fight for our Freedoms" college tour, will be moderated by Fat Joe and Anthony Ramos. U.S. Small Business Administrator Isabel Guzman will also speak.



September 28, 202315:46

VP pool report #2: VP addresses FIU students
Prior to VP's arrival, the audience heard speeches from Miami-Dade County Mayor Daniella Levine Cava and U.S. Small Business Administrator Isabel Guzman.
Cava spoke about the need for climate change adaptation, common sense gun laws, equality for LGBT community, and reproductive rights, after which she was met with applause.
"We're ground zero for climate change, we must be at the forefront of climate action," she said of Miami.
Guzman talked about the small business "boom" across the U.S., thanking the VP for her role in that.
VP arrived onstage to address the crowd of students at 2:56 p.m. The conversation lasted under an hour and was moderated by rapper Fat Joe and actor and singer Anthony Ramos.
"Today we're gonna have some real talk," Harris said as she addressed the crowd ahead of the conversation. "I'm clear-eyed that at this moment in our country we are witnessing an intentional, full on attack against hard-earned freedoms and rights. It is incumbent on us, then, to not just stand by and let it happen."
"I think your generation is one of the most spectacular, special that we have seen in a long time," Harris said. "You all were born only knowing the climate crisis. You all were born when there has been one of the worst pandemics the world has ever seen. In your lifetime, you witnessed George Floyd's murder. In your lifetime, growing up, you had to endure drills in elementary, middle or high school because there might be an active shooter."
The conversation touched on issues ranging from gun violence to climate change to reproductive rights.
Throughout, the VP encouraged students to vote.
One student asked what strategies people from marginalized communities can employ to make sure they have voting rights.
"It's not as simple as vote and your vote will matter," Harris said. "You've also got to know that there are people right now who are intentionally trying to make it difficult for you to vote." Harris also spoke on gun violence. Florida has been home to several mass shootings, including Parkland and the Pulse shooting in Orlando.
She asked the crowd to raise their hands if they had ever been through an active shooter drill in school. Nearly everyone did.
"I can't tell you the kind of fear that our young people, our children, are living with," she said, describing the "exposure to trauma, knowing it might happen."
The conversation also touched on climate change and abortion rights.
Harris spoke about growing up with a best friend who was molested by her stepfather; that experience encouraged her to become a prosecutor.
"We're talking about someone who has suffered an act of violence to their body, violation of their body," she said. "And then they don't have authority to decide what happens to their body next. That's immoral."
Should a law come before Congress to re-instill the protections of Roe v. Wade, she said, POTUS would sign it.
Another student asked her how people like him, in Florida, can make sure they learn "uncensored" truths in school, and how educators can help them navigate those obstacles.
She encouraged students who are minorities or might not otherwise feel represented to have remain undeterred, to have ambition, and to vote.
The conversation was around 45 minutes long and ended around 3:30 p.m.



September 28, 202316:46

VP pool report #3: departing FIU and more quotes
The VP departed FIU's campus at 4:31 p.m.
Here are some more quotes from the event:
The conversation touched on Gov. Ron DeSantis' efforts to crack down on "DEI," or diversity, equity and inclusion programs at Florida universities.
"Let's be really clear what they're up to," Harris said. "They're trying to say that's a bad word that's a bad phrase. They're trying to do the same thing they did with woke, trying to turn it against the people who understand exactly why it's important."The climate crisis also came up. Harris emphasized the importance of "environmental justice," focusing on the ways in which low income people and minorities are often the most affected and lack the means to bounce back.
"Recovery from extreme weather is much slower for poor people," she said.
At the end of the conversation, Harris was asked how she stays optimistic.
"When we are fighting for these freedoms, we are fighting for foundational principles of our country," she replied. "We love our country, we believe in its ideals. We know we have not achieved them all yet."
Other quotes on gun issue:
"I'm in favor of the second amendment but we need an assault weapons ban and universal background checks and red flag laws," Harris said. "Assault weapons, designed to kill a lotof people quickly, there's no reason for them to be on the streets of a civil society. Background checks, because you know what, you just might want to know before somebody can buy a lethal weapon."
"The question becomes, why hasn't it happened? There's a bunch of people in Congress who don't have the courage to step up."



September 28, 202318:49

VP pool report #4: Biden Victory Fund reception
The VP's next stop was the Biden Victory Fund reception at the home of former Miami Shores Mayor Crystal Wagar and former U.S Ambassador to Singapore Kirk Wagar.
The motorcade arrived at 5:14 p.m.
It was a humid, lively evening as attendees stood around a poolside DJ with cocktails in their hands.
Florida Democratic Party Chair Nikki Fried was also in attendance.
Introducing Harris, Kirk Wagar said the "narrative about Kamala Harris is 100 percent wrong." He encouraged the audience to remain optimistic, despite Florida becoming increasingly conservative, saying "Florida can be won."
Harris' remarks centered around similar themes to her conversation at FIU. But she held fewer punches when it came to Gov. Ron DeSantis administration's policies in Florida, describing it as the "epicenter" of recent attacks on people's freedoms.
"I'm back here in Florida to again thank you for what you've done," she said, "to let you know we've got your back and we know you're living in difficult territory."
She added that she speaks everywhere about the "atrocity" of the 'Don't Say Gay' bill, and talked about how young LGBT teachers in Florida now fear having pictures with their partners in their classrooms while a new required curriculum teaches that slavery had redeeming qualities.
"The agenda, by the way, is not only about Florida; there is a national agenda," she said.
The motorcade departed for the airport at 6:24 p.m.




  