
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

When we Americans commemorate the voyages of Leif Erikson, the daring Norse navigator who explosed the North American coast some 1,000 years ago, we celebrate the enduring spirit of discovery -- a spirit that is leading us to ever new frontiers in learning and commerce. As we remember "Leif the Lucky," the brave son of Iceland and grandson of Norway, we also celebrate the close, cordial ties that exist between the United States and the Nordic countries. Those ties have been strengthened and enriched over the years by the outstanding contributions of Nordic-Americans, who take special interest in this annual obervance of Leif Erikson Day.
Last year descendants of early Norse explorers reenacted the voyages of Leif Erikson by sailing replicas of Viking ships from Norway to Iceland, Greenland, and North America. The success of the tribute to "1,000 Years of discovery" rekindled feelings of friendship on both sides of the Atlantic and reaffirmed our admiration for all those who continue to chart new realms of knowledge and human endeavor -- from pioneers in science and technology to the courageous people who, for the first time in decades or perhaps for the first time ever, are beginning to reap the rewards of democracy and free enterprise.
At a time when relations between Europe and America are being renewed and strengthened in light of the new, post-Cold War era, the Nordic countries have an important role to play in fostering continued transatlantic cooperation, including an open trading system and mutual support of democratic reform. Likewise, Americans who trace their roots to the Nordic countries -- Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden -- provide a living link between continents, much as their ancestors did nearly a millennium ago.
In recognition of the legendary achievements of Leif Erikson and in honor of our Nordic-American heritage, the Congress, by joint resolution approved on September 2, 1964 (78 Stat. 849, designated October 9 of each year as "Leif Erikson Day" and requested the President to issue a proclamation in observance of this day.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim October 9, 1992, as Leif Erikson Day. I invite all Americans to observe this day with appropriate programs and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set by hand this twenty-sixth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety-two, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and seventeenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  