
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 9 1
The PresidentN announced his intention to appoint John Roth to be a member of the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Council.
September 10
In the late afternoon, the President and Hillary Clinton hosted a reception honoring the PBS television series "Baseball" on the South Lawn. In the evening, they went to Camp David, MD.
September 11
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton traveled to Aberdeen, MD. They returned to Camp David, MD, in the afternoon.
September 12
In the morning, the President and Hillary Clinton returned to the White House.
The President announced his intention to nominate Charles E. Redman to be Ambassador to Germany and Marc Grossman to be Ambassador to Turkey.
September 13
In the evening, the President attended the Professional Golfers Association President's Cup Dinner at the White House.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of Alaska following severe storms and flooding which began on August 8.
The President declared a major disaster exists in the State of California and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by the continuing effects of the warm water currents known as El Nino on the 1994 Coho salmon fishing season, which runs May 1–October 31.
The President announced his intention to nominate the following individuals to be members of the National Museum Services Board:
—Kinshasha Holman Conwill, Chair;
—Townsend Wolfe;
—Robert G. Breunig;
—Nancy Marsiglia;
—Arthur Rosenblatt;
—Ayse Manyas Kenmore;
—Ruth Tamura.
The President announced his intention to nominate Clifford O'Hara, Albert Nahmad, and Vince Ryan to the Board of the Panama Canal Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Frank Annunzio to serve as Chairman and John Pierce, Thomas K. Thomas, and Agnes Vaghi as members of the Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation.
The President announced his intention to appoint Thomas A. Farrington, Kassie Freeman, and William "Sonny" Walker to the President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities.
September 14
The President announced his intention to nominate Bernard Rostker to be Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Manpower and Reserve Affairs.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jean L. Hennessey as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars.
September 15
The President announced his intention to appoint Betty Bolden as Chair of the Federal Service Impasses Panel.
September 16
In the afternoon, the President met with Caribbean leaders in the East Room.
The President announced his intention to nominate Susan Hayase as a member of the Civil Liberties Public Education Fund Board of Directors.
The President announced his intention to nominate Howard Terry Rasco, Christine Warnke, Mary Ellen R. Fise, and Steve M. Hays as members of the Board of Directors of the National Institute for Building Sciences.
The White House announced that the President requested that former President Jimmy Carter, chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee Sam Nunn, and former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Colin Powell travel to Haiti to meet with the de facto regime.
  