
    TODAY'S PRESIDENTIAL ACTION
In his address to the Nation, President Bush announced his intention to submit a request to Congress for additional funds to pay for military and intelligence operations in Iraq and Afghanistan and elsewhere in the war on terror, and to help pay for the reconstruction of both nations.
Most of these funds ($66 billion) are dedicated to give our men and women in uniform the resources they need to succeed in their missions in Iraq, Afghanistan, and elsewhere in the war on terror. The remainder of the funds ($21 billion) are dedicated to helping to build safe, stable, and self-governing societies in these nations ravaged by decades of misrule.
The Administration intends to consult with the leadership and relevant committees of Congress on the final form and content of this request prior to submitting proposed legislation.
BACKGROUND ON THE BUDGET REQUEST
IRAQ
Operation Iraqi Freedom
The request will include roughly $51 billion to support ongoing military operations in Iraq. America's armed forces continue to play a critical role in bringing peace and stability to Iraq, and in eradicating the remaining remnants of the Saddam Hussein regime and fighting the terrorist threat. The Administration is committed to providing our troops with the resources and equipment they need to complete their mission.

Forces. The request will support a robust force in Iraq consisting of both US and multinational troops.
Coalition Support. The Administration is working to secure additional military support in Iraq from our coalition partners, and these nations are responding. For example, a Polish-led division is currently replacing U.S. Marines in Southern Iraq. The Administration's request will provide $800 million to transport and support the troops of those partners with limited resources who are willing to commit to the Operation.
Troop Support. The Administration plans to request $300 million for life-saving body armor and $140 million to deliver heavily armored "Humvees" to protect U.S. forces.
R&R for Troops. To enable soldiers on the front lines to receive a break from their tireless and courageous service, the President will request funds to assure two weeks of well-deserved R&R for troops deployed in Iraq for a year.
Equipment. The request will include funds to repair and replace equipment lost or damaged during the war and to provide rapid fielding of equipment to support continuing operations in Iraq.

Iraqi Reconstruction
The Administration will request $20 billion to help secure Iraq's transition to self-government and create the conditions necessary for economic investment and investment. After decades of malign neglect and corruption by the Saddam Hussein regime, the needs are enormous and urgent. Initial estimates are that Iraq will need between $50-75 billion to achieve these conditions for success.
The Administration and the international community expect Iraqi oil and other revenues and recovered assets to contribute to meeting these needs, the U.S. contribution is designed to have an immediate and significant impact on security and sectors critical to stability and growth. Nations in the region and the rest of the world share an interest in a free Iraq, and the Administration expects the international community to assume its role in ensuring that Iraq becomes a free and self-governing nation.

Security. Iraqi responsibility for public law, order and safety is crucial to success. The US request will provide roughly $5 billion to improve security immediately by training border and customs enforcement personnel, a new Iraqi army, police force and local civilian defense corps. The request will also support building a judicial and penal system.
Infrastructure. Iraqis have suffered the consequences of decades of Saddam Hussein's willful neglect of all major infrastructure needs. Families have been denied modern medical services and supplies. Schools, buildings, transportation and telecommunications networks, and water, sewage and electrical systems have crumbled under years of neglect and abuse. The US will provide approximately $15 billion to build and repair clinics; provide safe, clean drinking water; open ports, railroad lines and airports; restore oil production; and provide reliable electrical service for Iraqi families and businesses.

AFGHANISTAN
Operation Enduring Freedom
America's armed forces continue to hunt down remnants of the Taliban regime and al-Qaida members in Afghanistan, while also providing security and stability that are needed to help the Afghan people rebuild their nations shattered by decades of war and misrule.

U.S. Forces. The request will provide roughly $11 billion to support continuing U.S. efforts to track down terrorists and provide stability.

Acceleration of Afghan Reconstruction
The Administration will reallocate nearly $400 million from existing accounts to accelerate progress in Afghanistan. The request will seek an additional $800 million to address some of the most critical remaining security and reconstruction needs. This is in addition to the $1.8 billion previously appropriated for relief and reconstruction, and the $5 billion so far pledged by the international community.

Afghan Military and Police Forces. The request includes over $400 million to train and support the Afghan National Army and national police, border and highway patrol.
Critical Infrastructure. To improve the lives of Afghan citizens, the request includes over $300 million to accelerate the construction of roads, schools, health clinics, and local, small-scale projects.
Rebuilding the Afghan Economy. More than $120 million will be made available to train and generate jobs for demobilized militiamen, and to support private sector initiatives.
Rule of Law. Nearly $300 million will be provided to support rule of law efforts, elections, and the Government of Afghanistan operational requirements.

  