
    Pool Reports by Gillman Todd, The Dallas Morning News



Sent:
Reports:




 September 10, 2020 11:23

 pool report #1/all quiet 
It's quiet this morning at the White House, where it has been raining on and off.
For now, the only press/pool event on the schedule is still the 5 p.m. South Lawn departure for a campaign event in Freeland, Mich.
Pool was tested with nasal swabs. No one has been ejected. So, all clear for now.
The president has been tweeting on assorted topics: his comments to Bob Woodward on COVID-19, the anarchist threat to suburbia and Democrats' failure to utter "LAW & ORDER" at DNC. New Mexico's greatness hinges on his reelection. Greatest hits on Comey ("lier [sic] & leaker" and "Russia Witch Hunt") and Mitt Romney ("a man with little talent" who couldn't even beat Obama) and lament about funding for schools that don't reopen. 


 September 10, 2020 12:25

 pool report #2/lunch lid 
Lunch lid til 1:30 pm.
No other schedule updates. 


 September 10, 2020 

[APP Note: Report #3 does not exist or was not received by the APP.] 


 September 10, 2020 15:05

 pool report #4/POTUS newser delayed to 3:30 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.]


 September 10, 2020 15:27

 pool report #5/2 minute warning for POTUS newser 
[APP Note: No additional text was included in this report.] 


 September 10, 2020 15:52

 pool report #6/POTUS briefing underway 
President Trump announced that "Secretary of State Pompeo will leave this evening on a historic trip to Doha, to Qatar" for peace talks.Trump opened the news conference at 3:30 by name-checking four of the "all-stars" from the press corps who turned out today. He was consulting a list on the lectern and also making eye contact with those journalists.
The opening monologue lasted 18 minutes and covered a lot of familiar turf, shifting stream of consciousness style from one topic to the next, repeatedly emphasizing the importance of his victory over Joe Biden.
Vaccines are coming. "We want schools to safely open… Children are at extremely low risk of complications from the virus."
.2% of covid-19 deaths have occurred in those under age 25 and most had underlying conditions, he said.
"There's nothing like being in the classroom. That's what we've learned from this ordeal."
"We want to see Big 10 football. We hope it's coming back… I'm pushing it…. The players are missing a big opportunity…. They want to get into the NFL."
It's much safer for college kids to stay on campus, he said. "They have to go back."
At 20 colleges, not one student who tested positive has been hospitalized.
"Joe Biden continues to use the pandemic" for political purposes, reading off a TelePrompTer. "I'm not allowed to use the TelePrompTer. Why is that, Phil?" he says during his opening monologue to Washington Post's Phil Rucker – one of the reporters he named when he started -- in row 4.
Talks about Biden coming out of his basement.
Accuses Democrats of wanting a "blanket lockdown…. We're not doing anymore shutdowns…. The swine flu was a disaster… When Joe Biden was vice president his failed approach to the swine flu was a disaster" … more of the greatest hit on Biden mangling "H1N1" as "N1H1."… "He can't manage himself."… Biden/China. "They will own America."
Then he talks briefly about Pompeo heading to Middle East for a "bold diplomatic effort" to "Secretary of State Pompeo will leave this evening on a historic trip to Doha, to Qatar."
Nobody killed in Afghanistan since February.
The peace talks might have come sooner but for the "phony witch hunts." Notes that next week UAE-Israel deal will be signed at the White House and says another country might join.
Questions have begun: Why did you lie to the American people. 


 September 10, 2020 16:08

 pool report #7/more Trump briefing, briefing ends 
POTUS abruptly ended his newser after precisely 30 minutes, at 4pm, after engaging with three reporters.
Jon Karl peppered POTUS with an opening line of questions about his misleading public statements compared to comments to Bob Woodward about the pandemic. Trump turned at one point to medical adviser Dr. Scott Atlas, seated on the seat along the wall, where Dr. Fauci was often seated during the coronavirus task force briefing era. Press secretary Kayleigh McEnany is two seats to Atlas' left.
Trump defends his public-facing comments as a way to keep the public calm: "I don't want to jump up and down and start screaming `Death! Death!' "
Second question went to "all star" Phil Rucker. Why didn't you level with the American people as foreign leaders did, calmly but also telling their people it was more serious than you told Americans? (paraphrasing)
"We have done much much better than the European Union... and we have rounded the final turn."
Trump engaged in back and forth with both reporters, trying to move on from Karl by pivoting to Rucker but continuing to talk to Karl, then trying to pivot away from Rucker but continuing to engage with him, too.
During the final questions on the Durham investigation, Trump lists a number of Fox News shows he's watched since Wednesday night to support contentions about Comey and witch hunt allegations and criminality directed at him.
Be sure to consult transcript if you want all of it. Just trying to provide a bit of flavor from row 6, since it was all livestreamed.
Next up: Marine One departure in an hour or so. The rain has eased and we have no word on any change of plans. 


 September 10, 2020 16:15

 pool report #8/Hungary statement 
>From Judd Deere in the press office:
Today, President Donald J. Trump spoke with Prime Minister Viktor Orban of Hungary. The President thanked the Prime Minister for his support on progress toward reaching peace in the Middle East, as well as economic normalization between Serbia and Kosovo. The President and the Prime Minister also discussed important bilateral and regional issues. 


 September 10, 2020 17:13

 pool report #9/motorcade to JBA 
No Marine One departure this afternoon.
Although it is barely misting at the moment, a bad weather call has POTUS motorcading to Joint Base Andrews for his trip to Freeland, Mich., tonight.
Two black SUVs with the presidential seal and front fender flags rolled from the White House at 5:11 pm.
>From the middle of three pool vans near the back of the line it was not possible to say for sure who is riding with him.
The new sod on the South Lawn got a deep soaking today and remains soggy. It looks healthy. The seams between the rows are faintly visible, like marks from lawnmowing. 


 September 10, 2020 17:35

 Pool report #10/POTUS arrives at Andrews 
The president's motorcade entered Joint Base Andrews at 5:10 pm, filing past a massive C-5 and other cargo planes. His SUV parked at Air Force One at 5:34 pm.
Handing off to travel pool, which is waiting under the wing. You'll hear from me next when POTUS returns from Michigan around 10 pm.
Uneventful drive to Andrews. Sun was mostly out by the time we arrived.
My compliments to the designer of the red and blue flashing lights on that black ambulance-type truck in front of press in the motorcade. You were asked to make them painfully bright, and you delivered.
Hardly any onlookers as we departed the White House. One woman in a jack o lantern face mask. Across from the Washington Monument an older man in shorts and a red T-shirt, backpack and no mask, had both middle fingers aimed at the motorcade as we passed and a kind of nasty snarl. Assuming he doesn't know the order of procession one would assume that was intended for the president. 


 September 10, 2020 17:42

 Pool report #10a/JBA gaggle 
POTUS spoke at length with the travel pool before boarding Air Force One at 5:40. Intown pool observed from a few hundred feet but be on the lookout for comments. 


 September 10, 2020 22:36

 pool report #11/Marine One return to White House 
With the rain gone, POTUS choppered from Joint Base Andrews as he returned from Michigan tonight. It's a humid evening with a partly cloudy sky.
Marine One touched down on the newly sodded South Lawn at 10:28 pm with more than enough rotor wash to ruffle a face mask.
The president stepped out at 10:30, saluted the Marine and walked into the residence alone.
Four aides who traveled with him walked to the West Wing, including Kayleigh McEnany, Stephen Miller and Jared Kushner. Didn't quite catch the fourth.
We have a travel/photo lid at 10:34 pm. 




Pool Reports below by Matt Mercer, North State Journal



Sent:
Reports:




 September 10, 2020 14:56

 Supplemental Pool #1 - Ivanka Event 
Good afternoon from the State Farmer's Market in Raleigh. White House passes along this info:
On Thursday, September 10, Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump and USDA Secretary Sonny Perdue will visit Raleigh, NC where they will visit the North Carolina State Farmers Market, deliver remarks and participate in a Farmers to Families Food Box distribution.
Building off of the massively successful Farmers to Families Food Box Program that has delivered over 100 million meals across the country, USDA will also highlight how the NC State Farmers Market accepts Electronic Benefit Transfer (EBT) cards that contain government funds for various programs that help those most in need. This is another effort led by this Administration to connect fresh produce from local farmers to low-income families on top of the Farmers to Families Food Boxes. This program allows our nation's most vulnerable to be able to pick up fresh, locally sourced produce using their pre-existing benefits and continue to feed their families during these uncertain times.
QUOTE: "With over 100 million meals delivered to date, the Farmers to Families Food Box Program continues to serve and innovate in remarkable ways to feed our nation's most vulnerable. By making this technology available through USDA, we are enabling those most in need access to fresh, locally-sourced meat, dairy and produce for their families. The Secretary and I are thrilled to be able to highlight these efforts in the great state of North Carolina!" - Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump
 Expected Participants:Ivanka Trump, Advisor to the PresidentSonny Perdue, Secretary, U.S. Department of AgricultureSteve Troxler, North Carolina Agriculture CommissionerSim McIver, North Carolina Farmers Market ManagerPhil Blalock, Executive Director of National Association of Farmers Market Nutrition ProgramsRonnie Lee, Owner, Farmer of Lee's ProduceVaughn Ford, Owner, Farmer of Ford's Produce (Ford's Produce will provide the produce for the Farmers to Families Food Box Distribution that day) 


 September 10, 2020 15:37

 Supplemental Pool #2 - Ivanka Event 
Agriculture Secretary Sonny Perdue and Advisor to the President Ivanka Trump arrived at approximately 3:15 and toured several of the stands around the open-air market for around 20-35 minutes, stopping to take photos with several vendors including stopping at Lee's Produce of Johnston County.
Today's event is part of the Farmers to Families Food Box distribution program. Both Perdue and Trump participated in an event with the President in the western part of the state two weeks ago.
Approximately 6-8 produce trucks surround the far side of the market, where the stage is set up for remarks from the Secretary and Ms. Trump.
This is Secretary Perdue's 3rd event of the day in the state. Earlier he participated in a broadband connectivity announcement and joined Farm Bureau members for a roundtable discussion.
Earlier today, Ms. Trump tweeted a picture indicating she was flying to the state. 


 September 10, 2020 16:12

 Supplemental Pool #3 - Ivanka Event 
Remarks began at 3:54 with a welcome from state agriculture commissioner Steve Troxler.
"The State Farmer's Market is a dynamic hub and valuable resource for fruits, vegetables, meats, seafood, and flowers."
RE: The Farmers to Families Food Box program: "We've seen first hand how successful this program has been to the farmers and families in the state."
Troxler introduces Perdue, who he said needs little introduction given his work in the state.
Perdue: "This Farmer's Market is a jewel
Perdue also tells story about getting a call from President Trump after seeing milk, crops dumped on TV.
"The win-win-win relationship is the people who were hurting were connected to food they needed from farmers. This is America helping Americans"
Also today, Perdue says SNAP recipients can shop at farmers markets, other distribution points. Pilot project with online ordering as well.
Perdue introduces Ivanka - "It's been a joy for me to work with her on this program and seeing her enthusiasm."
Ivanka shouts out the tomatoes from Lee's Produce in her opening. The crowd includes around 30-40 seated and spaced apart.
"There were people struggling at every end of the spectrum from farmers to distributors to families who had never been to a food bank before. A program of this scale to be mobilized so quickly is incredible."
"The ability to bring our country's produce to those in need is so important."
Ivanka mentions faith community as part of distribution network and says 90 million boxes have now been delivered.
Ivanka says over 3,000 local markets have SNAP card capability.
"Hopefully I'll be back many times in the weeks and years ahead."
Ivanka wraps up at 4:11 and brings Congressman David Rouzer to the stage briefly. 


 September 10, 2020 16:31

 Supplemental Pool #4 - Ivanka Event 
Rouzer says President Trump has faced more road blocks than any President in history and says he always finds a way to get things done.
"I call him the can-do President and it's a real honor to work with this administration."
Ronnie Lee of Lee's Produce speaks as well. He has been at State Farmer's Market since 1990 and farms 250 acres.
"I'm not used to speeches, I'm used to being on a tractor." Says he had restaurants stop coming to pick vegetables and the Farmers to Families Food Box program has been invaluable to his business.
Event ends at 4:24 with Troxler thanking those in attendance. Troxler, Perdue, Trump, and Rouzer step over to pack a couple boxes for the Food Bank of Central and Eastern North Carolina's truck.
Good afternoon from the land of the Longleaf Pine! 




Pool Reports below by Wilner Michael, McClatchy



Sent:
Reports:




 September 10, 2020 17:44

 Out-of-town pool report #1 
Good evening from Joint Base Andrews. POTUS spoke to your pool before boarding for Freeland, MI.
He said the Michigan governor "should open up the state, open up the schools."
"We need some cooperation," he said. "Also from the governor of North Carolina."
"Michigan is doing really well," he said, citing the auto industry.
"I hear we have a big crowd," he said. "It's a very big one."
Taking a few questions, he said he hadn't seen the recently reported DHS whistleblower report, calling it a "disgrace."
He denied that he has discussed classified weapons systems and touted the country's military might, stating that there are U.S. systems that nobody knows about.
On Tik ToK: "We'll either close up Tik Tok or it'll be sold," he said.
On a Phase IV coronavirus package, he said he's prepared to support a stimulus bill but blamed Democrats for stalled efforts on the Hill.
The President arrived by motorcade at 5:34 pm and boarded AF1 at 5:40 pm, without addressing reporters. Kayleigh McEnany, Stephen Miller, Jared Kushner and others joined him.
Your pool is boarding now; flight time to Freeland is roughly 1.5 hours. Wheels up shortly. 


 September 10, 2020 19:13

 Out-of-town pool report #2 
AF1 was wheels down at MBS International Airport in Freeland, MI at 6:59 pm.
The weather is 56 degrees F and cloudy. Fox News played throughout the flight.
A correction to pool report #1 that POTUS did, as outlined, stop to address reporters before boarding. 


 September 10, 2020 19:20

 Out-of-town pool report #3 
POTUS emerged from AF1 to music, chants and rapturous applause at 7:15 pm.
The hangar here is packed, mostly maskless with no social distancing, and largely clad in red MAGA gear.
He took the stage at 7:17 pm and began speaking. His remarks are streamed. 


 September 10, 2020 20:42

 Out-of-town pool report #4 
After speaking for roughly an hour and 20 minutes, POTUS wrapped up his remarks at 8:35 pm. He boarded AF1 alone at 8:39 pm with a fist pump and a wave.
Your pool has boarded back for JBA. 


 September 10, 2020 22:17

 Out-of-town pool report #5 
AF1 was wheels down at JBA at 10:00 pm after an uneventful flight.
POTUS deplaned at 10:10 pm and promptly boarded Marine One, which took off at 10:16 pm.
Handing over to in-town pool. Good night. 



  