
    
"Well, Bob, I think we have to show them my record. I think we have to show them that I took on the big spenders, that I did campaign finance reform. I reached across the aisle to Democrats. And obviously I was very unpopular in some parts of my own party, whether it be on the issue of climate change or against Rumsfeld's strategy and the President's strategy in Iraq or whether it be on campaign finance reform or a number of other issues that I fought against the, quote, special interests." -- John McCain
John McCain
CBS' "Face The Nation"
September 7, 2008
CBS' Bob Schieffer: "We're glad to have you. Let's start right in with what you were talking about the other night. You did something really extraordinary at that convention. I've never been at a political convention where I heard a candidate get up and not only go after the other party but go after your own party. You even said at one point your party had lost its way. You said that Washington has to change and you're the one that can change it. But that's going to be a tall order isn't it? I mean because normally it's out in the wilderness. It's the group that's out that says throw the bums out. You're saying it was your party that was part of the problem and that you can be the agent of change. How do you convince people of that?"
John McCain: "Well, Bob, I think we have to show them my record. I think we have to show them that I took on the big spenders, that I did campaign finance reform. I reached across the aisle to Democrats. And obviously I was very unpopular in some parts of my own party, whether it be on the issue of climate change or against Rumsfeld's strategy and the President's strategy in Iraq or whether it be on campaign finance reform or a number of other issues that I fought against the, quote, special interests. And the point is real. We now have former members of Congress residing in federal prison. And I guess I'll say again what I said. We came to Washington to change Washington. We came to power to change Washington, and Washington changed us. And I understand the challenge. But I have to make a strong case that we're going to bring about that change and it's the right kind of change. And I know we're going to be talking about my running mate , but I think I got the right kind of running mate who has that record also." 
Schieffer: "We'll get to that in just a minute. But let me ask you just some specifics on how you're going to do it. Are you going to try to form some sort of unity government? Are you going to try to have Democrats within your administration as well as Republicans in?"
McCain: "You have to. You have to. Look at the approval rating of both Republicans and Democrats now. Look at the loss of trust and confidence. When we do all the town hall meetings and people say I've lost all trust and confidence in government, they don't say I've lost confidence in Republicans, Democrats, lost confidence in everybody. And the way you restore it is obviously to have a very bipartisan approach. They're in gridlock now. We all know that. They're going to go into session tomorrow actually and they're going to be gridlocked for a month and then they're going to go out. Whether it be energy or whether it be passing the necessary appropriations bills, whatever it is. And then the American people will frankly who are hurting more are going to be more disillusioned if that's possible." 
 Watch John McCain 
  