
    President George W. Bush and President Pervez Musharraf met in New York on September 22, and reaffirmed their commitment to broaden and strengthen the U.S.-Pakistan relationship in keeping with the vision agreed to in their meeting at Camp David in June last year.
The two Presidents reviewed progress in the global war on terror, and pledged to continue working together, ensuring that the appropriate resources are available. President Bush expressed appreciation for Pakistan's efforts in this area. They also welcomed the progress of the Joint Working Group on Terrorism and Law Enforcement and agreed to further strengthen bilateral cooperation in this regard.
President Musharraf highlighted the need for addressing the underlying causes that have given rise to disaffection and frustration in the Islamic world. In this connection, he recalled his concept of Enlightened Moderation which envisages cooperation of the United States and other leading world powers in finding solutions to long standing issues that affect the Muslim world.
The two leaders also noted their cooperation to stop the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and committed to sustain full efforts towards this end.
The two leaders discussed the importance of building security and prosperity in the region. They noted the urgency of maintaining a safe environment for fair elections in Afghanistan and President Bush thanked President Musharraf for his efforts in support of out-of-country voting in Pakistan.
President Bush noted the significant economic progress that Pakistan has made in recent years, and reaffirmed U.S. support for Pakistan's efforts to sustain reform and growth. He reiterated the U.S. Administration pledge of $3 billion over five years to help in important areas such as security and the social sector. President Musharraf expressed appreciation for US support to Pakistan's social sector, economic development and poverty reduction programs.
They reiterated their commitment to further expand bilateral trade and investment.
President Musharraf reiterated his commitment to democracy and his intent to strengthen the country's democratic institutions and bring sustainable democracy to Pakistan.
Taking note of the rich agenda for cooperation, President Bush once again emphasized the long-term U.S. commitment to Pakistan and to the region. President Musharraf expressed appreciation for the close collaboration between the two countries. Both Presidents agreed to further expand and deepen bilateral relations to the mutual benefit of the two countries.
  