
    THE PRESIDENT. I would like to say, first of all, that the entire Nation is deeply concerned about the damage caused by the recent hurricane here in Alabama and also in Mississippi and Florida.
Because of extremely good cooperation between the Federal and State agencies and local volunteers and others, the evacuation that took place ahead of Hurricane Frederic, so far as I know, was the most massive evacuation in the history of our country. About 500,000 people were moved out of the area that was later damaged by the storm.
This was a very severe hurricane, equal in its damage potential to Hurricane Camille about 10 years ago. Early estimates, as a matter of fact, show that the property damage might exceed what occurred with Hurricane Camille.
Ten years ago, 250 people lost their lives, but because of the evacuation techniques and the quick action on the part of Governor James and the other Governors involved, we've had serious loss of life, but so far as I know, only nine people. This is too much, obviously, but it's much better than the 250 that could have occurred had this action not been taken.
The Federal agencies and the State agencies are now, have been, and will continue to work with the closest possible coordination. All Federal agencies are working under the direction of John Macy, the head of FEMA. Our aid to this area has been approved by me—I think the quickest declaration of an emergency that I've ever had since I've been President—and we will continue this aid, not just for a few days or a few weeks but on a long and sustained basis, until the damage caused by this hurricane has been repaired.
This might take not only months but several years, but we will be here working with local and State officials to make sure that the damage is repaired as best we can and also that adequate aid is provided. With mobile homes, unemployment compensation, loans for homes and businesses, farmers, and as we repair this damage, we hope that working with local citizens and with officials at the State and local level as the damage is repaired that we can take much more effective steps to minimize any future damage than was taken 10 years ago.
I think it's accurate to say that the gulf shore region of our country is susceptible to fairly frequent, all too frequent storm damage, and I think in the design of buildings, in the orientation of transportation systems, and the organization of local volunteers, with building codes and otherwise, we can make sure that future storms have less damage to property and to our people than this one did.
My overwhelming sense here is one of concern, dedication to provide maximum service, but above all, my admiration, my appreciation, and thanks to Governor Fob James and others in this area who helped to minimize damage with their timely action and the unselfish volunteer work that has been so evident here in Alabama.
Governor, I thank you, and we are very eager to cooperate in every way we can.
GOVERNOR JAMES. Thank you. Mr. President.
We appreciate very much your being here and caring about what's going on down in Alabama. Thank you.
THE PRESIDENT. We will take a flight in the helicopter at low altitude to observe and to assess the damage. We'll have with us people who have already been through the area, and we'll probably be landing briefly in Mississippi. We'll be then going to Florida.. And as a result of this trip, I hope that I can better coordinate the efforts of the Federal Government. And I also, of course, came down here to make sure that the people in this area know that the whole Nation cares and that the whole Nation is deeply grateful for the timely action and the unselfish work that has been done.
GOVERNOR FINCH. Mr. President, we're proud of you, proud of the speedy method that you've handled everything, not only here but the Easter floods that Governor James and Governor Graham and all of us, citizens and all, have faced in the last few months. I haven't seen anybody respond as expeditiously and certainly show your concern and love for your fellow Americans as you have. We all want to tell you we appreciate this. We're just grateful that you took these few hours to come to Alabama, Mississippi, and Florida to show us your real concern.
GOVERNOR GRAHAM. Mr. President, your observation, too, is when we rebuild them, we rebuild them to stay, is so very valid. Just in the design of the understructure of these beach dwellings makes a lot of difference.
THE PRESIDENT. Yes.
Perhaps the press has a couple of questions. I'd be glad to answer. I'll probably refer them to—
Q. [Inaudible]
THE PRESIDENT. Yes, we did. But we came in fairly high. And we will use the helicopter primarily to examine from a lower height.
Q. Is there any possibility of airlifting food to the area—[inaudible]?
THE PRESIDENT. Yes. We'll bring in whatever food is necessary that needs to be brought in. And we are also beginning to assess the placement of mobile homes throughout the southeastern area, and they'll be moved in to provide places for people to live when they move out of the emergency shelters. I understand twenty or thirty thousand people are still in the emergency shelters in these three States.
Q. President Carter—[inaudible].
THE PRESIDENT. You mean gasoline? Do you have a shortage?
GOVERNOR GRAHAM. Yes.
GOVERNOR FINCH. We have agreed to bring it in, Mr. President.
THE PRESIDENT. Both Governors say that that's being taken care of satisfactorily. We will obviously help if they ask us to.
GOVERNOR FINCH. They have responded, and they have brought it in to you.
THE PRESIDENT. Very good.
Along with me, in addition to the bead of our entire operation, is the manager, Vernon Weaver, of the Small Business Administration. In addition to loans for farmers, we also, of course, have loans available under new legislation for homeowners, 3-percent loans, up to $55,000, and for businesses, loans at the interest rate of 5 percent. For people who have second homes, like vacation homes, then the interest rates would be about 7 5/8 percent. But those loans will be available, and we'll have people moving in here to take care of those needs immediately.
I might point out coincidentally that although Hurricane Camille took place 10 years ago, the Small Business Administration still has 22 people in this area taking care of the loans that were extended to people in Alabama and Mississippi back in those years.
Does anyone else have a question? If not, we'll go and take a look around.
I want to thank the Red Cross for the good work you all have done and the other volunteer workers. Thank you very much. Well, we're all in it together, and we're here to provide help with the taxpayers' money, and I just am glad to be partners with such a fine group as this.
Thank you very much, Fob.
  