
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced Georgia Lawyers for Rudy Leadership Team. This coalition of legal professionals will help build support for Mayor Giuliani and his commitment to appoint strict constructionist judges.
Doug Chalmers will chair Georgia Lawyers for Rudy. Chalmers, Chairman of Georgia's Republican National Lawyers Association chapter, will also serve as the Southeastern Regional Chair of Lawyers for Rudy. Joe Whitley, who served as President George W. Bush's first General Counsel of the United States Department of Homeland Security, will serve as Honorary State Chair.
Former Solicitor General of the United States Ted Olson is the National Chair of Lawyers for Rudy. Today's announcement follows a recent Lawyers for Rudy event in Atlanta, led by Patrick Oxford, Giuliani's National Campaign Chairman, and Larry Levy, Giuliani Campaign Counsel.
About Georgia Lawyers for Rudy Leadership Team:
Douglas Chalmers, Jr.,Southeast U.S. and Georgia State Chair
Doug Chalmers is a partner at McKenna Long & Aldridge LLP. Mr. Chalmers will lead Lawyers for Rudy in Georgia and in the Southeastern Region of the U.S., which includes Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Mississippi and South Carolina. He is Chairman of the Georgia chapter of the Republican National Lawyers Association. He is also legal counsel to the campaign committees for many of Georgia's top elected Republican officials, and has been named as a Georgia Super Lawyer "Rising Star" in the area of business litigation.
Joe Whitley, Honorary State Chair
Whitley is a partner at Alston & Bird LLP. In 2003, Mr. Whitley was appointed by President George W. Bush to serve as the first General Counsel of the United States Department of Homeland Security ("DHS"). In the administration of President George H.W. Bush, Mr. Whitley served as the Acting Associate Attorney General, the third-ranking position in the Department of Justice. He was also appointed by Presidents Reagan and Bush, respectively, to serve as U.S. Attorney in the Middle and Northern Federal Districts of Georgia.
Chris Anulewicz, State Vice Chair
Anulewicz is a partner at Balch & Bingham LLP and a member of the Federalist Society. He has represented a number of elected officials and individuals regarding election and redistricting issues. He has been named as one of Georgia's Super Lawyers "Rising Stars" in litigation.
Robert Capobianco, State Vice Chair
Capobianco is a partner with Elarbee Thompson. He is Vice Chair of the Member Services Committee of the Republican National Lawyers Association and a member of the Federalist Society.
Stacy Freeman, State Vice Chair
Freeman is a principal with Troutman Sanders Public Affairs Group LLC and is of counsel with Troutman Sanders LLP. He focuses on governmental relations, legislative action and insurance regulation.
Charlie Henn, State Vice Chair
Henn is a partner at Kilpatrick Stockton LLP. He is just completing his term as President of the Atlanta Lawyers' Chapter of The Federalist Society. Mr. Henn recently was recognized by the Fulton County Daily Report as one of the "Ten Lawyers Under 40 'On the Rise'" and as a Georgia Super Lawyer "Rising Star" for Intellectual Property Litigation.
Rob Joseph, State Vice Chair
Joseph is a lawyer with Hill, Kertscher & Wharton, LLP. He serves on the Executive Board of the Atlanta Lawyers Chapter of the Federalist Society and on the Georgia Republican Party State Committee.
Patrick O'Connor, State Vice Chair
O'Connor is the managing partner at Oliver Maner and Gray in Savannah and has practiced law in Savannah for over twenty years. O'Connor is the past President of the Savannah Bar Association and currently serves on the Board of Governors of the State Bar of Georgia.
Holly Pierson, State Vice Chair Pierson is of counsel with Nelson Mullins. Ms. Pierson, a former prosecutor, is on the Executive Board of the Atlanta Lawyers' Chapter of the Federalist Society. She was co-chair of Georgia Young Professionals for Bush and participated in the Florida recounts on behalf of the Bush-Cheney campaign during the 2000 election.
  