
    THE PRESIDENT of the United States, the President of the Council of Ministers of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Italian Republic and the Secretary of State met at the White House today and held two intensive discussions covering a wide range of subjects which are of mutual concern and interest to their two countries. The talks took place in a spirit of close friendship and mutual comprehension and were characterized by their frankness and their fullness.
In amplification of their meeting in Paris on September 3, the President and the Prime Minister reviewed in detail the current world situation. They discussed the developments of the recent visit to the United States of the Chairman of the Council of Ministers of the USSR and agreed that this exchange of views has proved useful in the cause of the peace.
The President and the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State restated their belief that all possible efforts should continue to be made to achieve a reduction of armaments throughout the world, within a framework of adequate controls and safeguards. The President expressed his gratification for the inclusion of Italy in the Committee of the Ten Powers which at the beginning of next year will handle the vital problem of disarmament. He stressed the contribution which Italy may be expected to make in this field and added that the United States Government will continue its support of Italian participation in the discussions of major world problems.
The President and the Prime Minister reaffirmed the dedication of their two countries to the United Nations, and to the principles on which it was founded. They also agreed that the present international situation does not yet permit relaxation in Western defense efforts. They reiterated their firm conviction that the combined strength and coordinated action of the free and sovereign countries in the North Atlantic Alliance are vitally necessary to assure peace and security and to protect the right of their people to live in freedom under Governments of their own choosing. They declared that the North Atlantic Alliance will remain the cornerstone of their foreign policies.
The President and the Secretary of State expressed the full recognition of the United States for the contribution which Italy is making in the development of closer political and economic association between the countries of Europe, and reaffirmed the support of the United States for such a policy.
The President and the Prime Minister also discussed the principles which guide the cooperative efforts of the free nations in their programs for assistance to the underdeveloped countries.
The President and the Prime Minister noted with particular satisfaction the opportunity afforded by this visit to carry on the consultations which are a continuing and regular process in the close relations happily existing between the United States and Italy.
The Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister will continue their discussions with the Secretary of State and other senior officials of the United States Government.
  