
    Between President Trump's historic peace deals and Team Trump's travel schedule, President Trump's re-election campaign is gaining momentum and dominating the ground game. Meanwhile, Joe Biden continues to hide from voters - only coming out of his basement to do scripted speeches and taking virtually zero questions from reporters. Joe Biden knows his radical agenda, including a $4 trillion tax hike and embrace of the Green New Deal, pales in comparison to President Trump's Fighting for You! second term agenda which puts the American people and our great nation first.
Former Trump Deputy National Security Advisor KT McFarland discussed all this and more on tonight's 'The Right View' hosted by Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Lara Trump, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee Kimberly Guilfoyle, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications Mercedes Schlapp, and Trump 2020 Senior Advisor Katrina Pierson.

CLICK HERE TO WATCH
"From his groundbreaking peace deals with the Middle East to leading our economy to historic heights, President Trump keeps delivering on his promises for the American people," said KT McFarland, former Trump Deputy National Security Advisor. "For as long as he has been in Washington, Joe Biden has not proven himself to be a strong leader, and President Trump is the only one who will continue to fight for this nation and bring us to new heights."
"The mainstream media can try their hardest to smear President Trump, but the American people are seeing the results of his nonstop work ethic and love for this country," said Lara Trump, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "Joe Biden's campaign has no enthusiasm, and that comes as no surprise as President Trump continues restoring the economy, brokering historic peace deals, and delivering on his Promises Made, Promises Kept."
"Besides his mental deterioration, the most frightening aspect of Joe Biden's campaign is his embrace of the far-left's radical agenda that would completely destroy this country," said Kimberly Guilfoyle, National Chair of Trump Victory Finance Committee. "President Trump fights each and every day for the American people, and when people head to the polls on November 3, they will choose President Trump's America First agenda over Biden's socialist wish list."
"Team Trump is working tirelessly - hitting the road, registering voters, interacting with the American people - and it's all in an effort to re-elect President Trump to ensure a prosperous future for our country," said Mercedes Schlapp, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor for Strategic Communications. "It is critical we show up in full force on Election Day and deliver a landslide win to keep socialism out of our country and keep President Trump in the White House."
"With the enthusiasm we are seeing on the campaign trail, it is clear Americans are ready to re-elect President Trump, the People's President, for four more years," said Katrina Pierson, Trump 2020 Senior Advisor. "The American people don't want a spineless leader carrying a radical agenda, like Joe Biden. They want a strong, decisive leader that will deliver the Great American Comeback and restore our country to greatness, and they have one in President Trump."
  