
    Former U.N. Ambassador voices opposition to Lieberman-Kyl Amendment
NEW YORK, NY-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today issued the following statement on Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's visit to New York City, which has included speeches at Columbia University and the United Nations General Assembly meeting:
"In speeches yesterday and today, President Ahmadinejad has confirmed what we already knew: he is a demagogue and a despot. While I would not have invited him to speak at Columbia, I do support academic freedom on American campuses. We need to start talking with other nations again-- both our friends and our enemies.
"Throughout my career, I have brought people together to get things done. I have negotiated with some of the toughest dictators in the world and come back home with American hostages and peace agreements. I know that we can end Iran's nuclear program and its support for terrorist groups.
"We need to turn down the fiery rhetoric and turn up the smart pressure. The current legislation proposed in Congress, including the Lieberman-Kyl Amendment, moves the U.S. further away from stabilizing the Middle East and finding a diplomatic solution to the region's problems. Such legislation also cracks the door for the Bush administration to take military action against Iran, something no one wants.
“With sanctions for bad behavior and economic benefits and security guarantees as rewards for good behavior, we can strengthen Iranian moderates and pragmatists and integrate Iran into the community of peaceful nations.
"We will not be successful in the region if we continue the current course in Iraq. We need to withdraw all of our troops and leave behind no residual forces. This is a major difference that I have with my colleagues running for President. We cannot achieve peace in Iraq and stability in the region until all of our troops are out."
Watch Governor Richardson's newly released video, "The Choice on Iraq," here.
Read Richardson's speech on Iran to The Center for National Policy here.
  