
    United States President William Jefferson Clinton, Republic of Korea President Kim Daejung and Japanese Prime Minister Obuchi Keizo met today in Auckland to continue to coordinate their respective policies toward the DPRK and to discuss regional and global issues.
The three leaders expressed their expectation that the comprehensive and integrated approach developed jointly by the U.S., the ROK, and Japan provides an invaluable opportunity to ensure peace and stability on the Korean peninsula, and they also expressed their hope that the DPRK responds positively to the concepts discussed by Dr. Perry during his visit to Pyongyang last May.
The three leaders confirmed that they are prepared to undertake measures to improve their respective relations with the DPRK as the DPRK addresses the concerns of the U.S., ROK, and Japan, and takes steps to reduce tensions and establish lasting peace on the Korean peninsula and beyond.
The leaders confirmed that the 1994 Agreed Framework serves as an integral part of their joint efforts as they seek improved relations with the DPRK.
The three leaders reconfirmed their commitment to continue to act in close coordination at all times.
The leaders expressed grave concern over the continuing violence and resulting humanitarian disaster in East Timor. They reaffirmed that the primary responsibility of restoring law and order in East Timor resides with the Indonesian government, and urged the Indonesian government to take prompt measures to ensure that the free will of the East Timorese people, as clearly expressed in the referendum of August 30, be fully respected. They agreed to work closely with the United Nations and other members of the international community toward that end, keeping in mind the desirability of maintaining the stability of Indonesia as a whole in order to avoid possible negative consequences which might arise in the region.
The three leaders welcomed the fairly smooth progress being made in the efforts to overcome the Asian financial crisis as various economic indicators show signs of economic recovery, and have agreed to cooperate closely in order to sustain the momentum for recovery of the Asian countries. They underscored the need for APEC economies to work together for the successful launching of a new three-year WTO Round at the November Seattle WTO Ministerial. They agreed that the region's leaders must stay the course with politically difficult macroeconomic and structural reforms to sustain the region's recovery.
  