
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

For decades America has paused on the 11th of November, the anniversary of the armistice that concluded World War I, to remember and to honor our veterans of military service. We do so in proud and grateful recognition of the hardships and sacrifices demanded from and faithfully accepted by the millions of men and women who have defended our land in war and in peace.
Our observance of Veterans Day this year, the Bicentennial of the Constitution, reminds us in a special way of the service men and women who have made liberty's cause their own. Our fundamental charter lives on because through the years countless brave Americans have gladly willed to "provide for the common defence." No one is more responsible for securing "the Blessings of Liberty to ourselves and our Posterity" than our veterans. That is why, this November 11 and always, we let veterans know that their service is not forgotten, that their sacrifices are appreciated, and that America salutes its defenders.
In order that we may pay fitting homage to those who have served in our Armed Forces, the Congress has provided (5 U.S.C. 6103(a)) that November 11 of each year shall be set aside as a legal public holiday to honor America's veterans.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim Wednesday, November 11, 1987, as Veterans Day. I urge all Americans to recognize the valor and sacrifice of our veterans through appropriate public ceremonies and private prayers. I also call upon Federal, State, and local government officials to display the flag of the United States and to encourage and take part in patriotic activities throughout our country. I invite the business community, churches, schools, unions, civic and fraternal organizations, and the media to support this national observance with suitable commemorative expressions and programs.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  