
    Pool Reports by Alexander Roarty, McClatchy 



Sent:
Reports:




September 13, 202106:18 EDT

Travel pool report #1 checking in 
Good early morning from Wilmington. Your pooler is COVID tested and gathered for a 6:15 call time.
The president is scheduled to depart back to DC at 8:10 this morning, from Brandywine Creek State Park, ahead of a three-stop Western road trip to Boise, Sacramento, and Long Beach today.
Reminder of today's POTUS/briefing schedule here:
EDT
6:15 AM Supplemental Travel Pool Call Time
7:40 AM Out-of-Town Travel Pool Call TimeJoint Base Andrews Visitor Control Center Overhang
8:10 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Wilmington, Delaware en route Joint Base AndrewsBrandywine Creek State ParkSupplemental Pool
9:15 AM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route Boise, IdahoJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
MDT
11:50 AM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Boise, IdahoBoise AirportOpen Press
12:15 PM THE PRESIDENT receives a briefing from Federal and state fire agency officialsNational Interagency Fire Center, Boise, IdahoOut-of-Town Pool Spray at the Top
12:55 PM THE PRESIDENT visits the National Interagency Fire CenterNational Interagency Fire Center, Boise, IdahoOut-of-Town Pool
1:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Boise, Idaho en route Mather, CaliforniaBoise AirportOpen Press
PDT
2:15 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Mather, CaliforniaSacramento Mather AirportOpen Press 
2:40 PM THE PRESIDENT receives a briefing from local, state, and Federal emergency response personnel on the impacts of recent wildfiresCalifornia Governor's Office of Emergency Services (Cal OES), Mather, CaliforniaOut-of-Town Pool Spray at the Top
3:25 PM THE PRESIDENT surveys damage from the Caldor Fire by taking an aerial tour of hard hit communities in El Dorado CountySacramento Mather AirportOut-of-Town Pool 
4:25 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks on his Administration's response to recent wildfires, and how the investments he is proposing in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda will strengthen our nation's resilience to climate change and extreme weather eventsSacramento Mather AirportOut-of-Town Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media
4:55 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Mather, California en route Long Beach, CaliforniaSacramento Mather AirportOpen Press
6:15 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives in Long Beach, CaliforniaLong Beach AirportOpen Press 
7:00 PM THE PRESIDENT delivers remarks at a campaign rally with Governor Gavin NewsomLong Beach, CaliforniaOut-of-Town Pool and Pre-Credentialed Media
Briefing Schedule
Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre will gaggle aboard Air Force One en route Boise, Idaho



September 13, 202108:18 EDT

Travel pool report #2 motorcade rolling
?Motorcade is rolling from POTUS residence at 8:18
Pool did not see the president enter the motorcade



September 13, 202108:32 EDT

travel pool report #3 Delaware departure
Motorcade arrived at Brandywine Creek State Park at 8:24.
Pool caught a glimpse of POTUS boarding Marine 1 minutes later.
Marine 1 lifted at 8:31
Per WH, traveling with the president is:
Joshua Geltzer, Deputy Assistant to the President & Deputy Homeland Security Advisor
Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide
That's it from your pooler from Delaware. Handing off now.




 
Pool Reports below by Zolan Kanno-Youngs, The New York Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 13, 202109:31 EDT

Travel pool report #4 jba arrival/AF1
Hello all. Zolan Kanno-Youngs here from the NYT picking up pool duties.
Marine One landed at Joint Base Andrews at 9:24 am this morning after. The president, wearing a blue suit, no tie and mask, was greeted by Col. William C. McDonald, Vice Commander for the 89th Airlift Wing.
POTUS waved but did not stop for reporters. He boarded AF1 at 9:26 am.
We're off to Boise Airport, where the president will receive a briefing from federal and state fire agency officials.
Karine Jean-Pierre, the White House deputy press secretary, is expected to hold a gaggle on the flight at noon ET. It will be live streamed here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/
Passing this background along from a White House official:
Today, President Biden will embark on his first official trip to the west coast as President. He will travel to Boise, Idaho for a briefing from Federal and state fire agency officials at the National Interagency Fire, the nation's hub coordinating all of our Federal firefighting resources. After, he will travel to Sacramento, California to survey damage from northern California wildfires that have burned hundreds of thousands of acres and thousands of structures. The trip follows the President's visit to New York and New Jersey last week where he surveyed damage in the wake of Ida.
During the trip, President Biden will see firsthand the significant physical, human, and economic costs of wildfires. As one in three Americans are impacted by the increasing frequency of ferocity of extreme weather events, he will reiterate the message he shared on the east coast last week: the climate crisis is code red. The President will make clear that these extreme weather events require bold, ambitious, and decisive action – now. And he will underscore how the investments he is proposing in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal and Build Back Better Agenda will strengthen our nation's resilience to climate change and extreme weather events, advance environmental justice, and create good-paying, union jobs. Tomorrow, the President will travel to Denver, Colorado to continue underscoring how the investments in his agenda will help our country tackle the climate crisis, modernize our infrastructure and make it more resilient – all while creating good jobs and growing the economy in the long-term.
Will circle back.



September 13, 202112:02 MDT

Travel pool report #5 Arrival in Boise
The President stepped off Air Force One at 11:54 am at Boise Airport and was greeted by Boise Mayor Lauren McLean. They spoke for more than a minute before POTUS entered the beast.
We were packed into the vans at 11:56 and began rolling to the National Interagency Fire Center at 11:57.
While in the air, White House deputy press secretary Karine Jean-Pierre gaggled with the pool for about 28 minutes.
She was asked about reports on the North Korea missile launch, the release of 9/11 documents, the ways and means committee, the reconciliation package, Sen. Manchin's Sunday interview, the withdrawal from Afghanistan, Secretary Blinken's congressional hearing, the timing of POTUS's stump for Gov. Newsom, climate change, Biden's call with President Xi, the Supreme Court, the filibuster and security concerns about a Sept. 18th rally to support the Capitol rioters.
The gaggle was live streamed (link in previous pool report).



September 13, 202113:02 MDT

Travel pool report #6 Briefing/Idaho background
Pool was escorted into the rigging shop of the Smokejumpers Loft in the national interagency fire center at about 12:08 PM for the briefing.
Before the briefing began, pool was told that the Boise mayor presented a painting of the Boise foothills for POTUS.
POTUS, wearing a blue suit, no tie and a mask, sat in the middle of U-shaped panel. Grant Beene, the assistant director for fire and aviation for the bureau to land management, began the briefing by welcoming the president.
"Wildfire response across the nation is unified cooperative and I'll also say professional," Mr. Beene said.
Governor Brad Little then gave brief remarks. He first said "thank you for asking these men and women firefighting to get on these fires early."
He then said he wanted to talk about "what we can all do as federal partners to build a more resilient range of forest resistance."
He also asked that Mr. Biden specifically get the DOJ more involved in lawsuits involved wildfires.
"Besides you directing the forest service and BLM, the department of justice has a role," the governor said. Despite the work, the "cases get hung up for many minor reasons."
"All the western governors stand ready to work with you and your administration on it," Mr. Little said of the wildfires.
Biden then quoted a poem before commending firefighters. "God made man, then he made a few firefighters." He said the only thing that keeps them safe is "one another."
Biden recounted the vast acreage destroyed by recent fires but firefighters had saved lives. "You saved South Lake Tahoe." He reiterated his call to raise pay for firefighters.
He also noted he had used the Defense Production Act to produce firehose and directed EPA to come up with a way to deliver smoke and fire information to mobile phones. Turning to infrastructure he said the proposal includes billions for fire management and public water resources. "We can't continue to ignore reality," he said of global warming.
"I'm here to hear what's on your mind and what more my administration can be doing," Mr. Biden said. "You know the time of the year the air fills with smoke and the sky turns orange. That time is getting earlier every year."
"We can't continue to try and ignore reality," Biden said. "President Obama used to always say, 'reality has a way of working its way in.' And the reality is we have a global warming problem."
Biden then said he had heard Mr. Beebe used to be a smoke jumper. "You're crazy too," he said, prompting laughs in the room. "But god bless you."
Pool was escorted out at roughly 12:35.
Color: there were parachutes hanging from the walls, as well as multiple pieces of taxidermy. Antlers were hanging to Biden's right and the coat of a bear to his left. A large parachute was pinned at the back of the room.
Other attendees:

Brad Little, Governor of Idaho
Grant Beebe, Assistant Director for Fire and Aviation, Bureau of Land Management
George Geissler, Washington State Forester
Josh Simmons, Chair of NIFC's National Multi-Agency Coordination Group
Robyn Heffernan, NWS National Fire Weather Science and Dissemination Meteorologist
Background from White House 
Impact of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act on Idaho
The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make a generational investment in Idaho's infrastructure and resilience:
Roads and bridges:

In Idaho there are 286 bridges and over 1,100 miles of highway in poor condition.
Based on formula funding alone, Idaho will receive $2 billion for federal-aid highways and $537 million for bridges.

Public transportation:

Idahoans who take public transportation spend an extra 150% of their time commuting. A third of transit vehicles in Idaho are past useful life.
Based on formula funding alone, Idaho will receive $192 million to improve public transportation options.

High-speed internet:

12% of Idaho households do not have an internet subscription.
Idaho will receive a minimum allocation of $100 million to help provide broadband coverage across the state, including providing access to the at least 53,000 Idahoans who currently lack it.




Idaho will receive a minimum allocation of $100 million to help provide broadband coverage across the state, including providing access to the at least 53,000 Idahoans who currently lack it.

Resilience:

From 2010 to 2020, Idaho experienced 11 extreme weather events, costing the state up to $2 billion in damages.
The bill includes a $50 billion national investment in resilience to bolster our country's infrastructure for the impacts of climate change and other threats, including funds to protect against floods, droughts, wildfires, and cyberattacks.
Funding can go towards things like development of evacuation routes, upgrading community shelters, and hardening the power grid to reduce the impact of flooding and extreme cold and wind on maintaining power to the region.

Impact of the Build Back Better Plan on Idaho
The Build Back Better Plan will make life better for millions of working families in Idaho:
Tax Cut for Families with Children:

There are 31,000 or 7% of children under the age of 18 in Idaho who are considered poor.
The plan's Child Tax Credit extension will benefit more than 400,000 children in Idaho and reduce child poverty in the state by 42%.

Tax Cut for Childless Workers:

Before the Rescue Plan, low-income childless workers were taxed into poverty.
The plan's expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit for childless workers will benefit more than 104,000 workers in Idaho.

Child Care:

The average annual cost of child care for a toddler in Idaho is $8,400, meaning a two-parent household needs to spend 11% of their income to afford care for one child every year.
The plan ensures that no middle-class family pays more than 7% of their income for high-quality child care up to age 5.

Universal Pre-K:

Only 11% of 3- and 4-year-olds in Idaho are enrolled in publicly-funded pre-school, the lowest share of any state.
The plan makes universal preschool a reality.

Paid Leave:

Currently, in Idaho and across the nation, more than 110 million workers lack access to paid family leave and nearly 84 million lack access to paid medical leave.
The plan will create a national, comprehensive paid family and medical leave program that will provide a total of 12 weeks of leave per year for parental, family care, and personal illness/safe time by year 10 of the program, as well as three days of bereavement leave per year so that workers aren't forced to choose between their jobs and their caregiving responsibilities.

Higher Education:

The average cost of a 2-year degree in Idaho is $4,200 per year.
The plan provides at least two years of free community college to all students and expands the maximum Pell Grant by nearly $1,500, supporting the more than 40,200 students in Idaho who rely on Pell Grants.
The plan provides at least two years of free community college to all students and expands the maximum Pell Grant by nearly $1,500, supporting the more than 40,200 students in Idaho who rely on Pell Grants.

Housing:

84,000 renters in Iowa spend more than 30% of their income on rent.
The plan will boost the supply of affordable housing by constructing or rehabilitating more than two million homes across the country.

Workforce Development:

The plan will invest in training programs that will prepare millions of workers for high-quality jobs in fast-growing sectors, make historic investment in Registered Apprenticeship programs, and invest in middle and high school career and technical education programs.

American Rescue Plan Impact on Idaho

$1.3 billion in state fiscal relief.
$600 million in local fiscal relief.
More than $455 million in relief for K-12 schools.
Economic impact payments of up to $1,400 per person (above the $600 per person provided in December) for more than 1.1 million adults and 521,000 children. This is 91% of all adults in the state and 90% of all children in the state.
Additional relief of up to $1,600 per child through the Child Tax Credit to the families of 410,000 children, lifting 17,000 children out of poverty.
Additional relief of up to nearly $1,000 through the Earned Income Tax Credit to 109,000 childless workers, including many in frontline jobs.
Marketplace health insurance premiums that are $1,571 lower per month for a 60-year old couple earning $75,000 per year.
$352 million in Emergency Rental Assistance.
Federal COVID-19 Support for Idaho
Pharmacies: As of September 11, there are about over 180 pharmacies in the state administering COVID-19 vaccine. Over 442,000 doses have been administered in the state through participating pharmacies, since the program began.
Community Health Centers: The Biden-Harris Administration is delivering vaccine doses directly to 3 Community Health Centers (CHCs) in the state, spanning five sites. As of September 10, 10,370 doses have been delivered directly to CHCs in the state.
Federal Funding and Personnel: As of September 7, the Biden-Harris Administration has provided over $47.3 million in FEMA funding to support vaccination operations in communities across the state.
To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has deployed 13 federal personnel to community vaccination centers in the state, with 1 currently deployed. Additionally, since September 7, 23 DOD personnel have been deployed in Coeur d'Alene to support hospital capacity. To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has also provided federal funding for over 320 National Guard members to support the state's overall COVID-19 response, with 301 currently supporting.
Community Vaccination Centers: As of September 7, the Biden-Harris Administration has provided federal support for 19 community and pop-up vaccination centers in the state, in the form of federal funding, personnel, and/or equipment—with 2 currently operational.





September 13, 202113:37 MDT

Travel pool report #7 Tour of the National Interagency Fire Center
The President left his briefing in the smokejumper's loft of the National Interagency Fire Center shortly before 1:10 PM.
He walked outside where there was a line of emergency trucks — one white, one green and one lime green. The white truck was labeled Golden Eagles Hot Shots. A line of the following officials stood in front of the trucks waiting for POTUS.

Brad Little, Governor of Idaho
Grant Beebe, Assistant Director for Fire and Aviation, Bureau of Land Management
Phil Lind, Smokejumpers Base Manager
Lindsey Neiwert, Bureau of Land Management Range Technician
Nick Loveless, Bureau of Land Management Range Technician
Garrett Kidd, Bureau of Land Management Range Technician
Colby Bertalotto, U.S. Forest Service Technician
Paul Mitchell,U.S. Forest Service Technician
Ben Oakleaf, National Interagency Fire Center Smokejumper

Mr. Beebe led Biden to the line of technicians, smoke jumpers and first responders. Mr. Biden started on the far left, extending his hand to one of the first responders and saying, "Captain, how are you doing?"
He then stopped to chat with each of those in line, asking one of the officials how long they've been working. POTUS was barely within earshot of the pool.
POTUS was then led back inside, where two officials presented the different tools they use to fight wildfires. POTUS held what appeared to be a black axe with orange tips.
"Once we get on the ground the hard work starts and that's when we basically turn into ditch diggers," one official told Biden.
Press was escorted out of the room at 1:17 PM, just moments after we were allowed in.
Some more details from the briefing that occurred PRIOR to the tour —>
Behind the panel of politicians, some technicians and smoke jumpers sat listening to the officials speak.
Biden also emphasized that the United States needed to focus on investing in resiliency, highlighting his infrastructure proposal.



September 13, 202113:55 MDT

Travel pool report #8 rolling back to Boise Airport
POTUS participated in a photo line after his tour.
Attendees:Lauren McLean, Mayor of BoiseIlana Rubel, State House Minority LeaderJanie Ward-Engelking, State SenatorAli Rabe, State SenatorBrooke Green, State RepresentativeMufy Davis, State RepresentativeColin Nash, State RepresentativeSue Chew, State RepresentativeJohn Gannon, State RepresentativeJohn McCrostie, State RepresentativeLauren Necochea, State RepresentativeBrian Thomas, Chairman, Shoshone-Paiute TribesDevon Boyer, Chairman, Fort Hall Business CouncilTom Lovell, President, IAFF Professional Firefighters of IdahoCurtis Smith, Secretary-Treasurer, IAFF Professional Firefighters of IdahoJoe Maloney, President, Idaho AFL-CIOJason Hudson, Government Affairs Director, Idaho AFL-CIO
Motorcade left the The National Interagency Fire Center at 1:45 PM. We arrived at the adjacent Boise Airport at 1:47 PM.
POTUS exited the beast 1:49 PM. He spoke briefly with
-Brig. Gen. Timothy J. Donnellan, Assistant Adjutant General, Idaho Air National Guard, Gowen Field, Boise, Idaho
MCol. Shannon D. Smith, Commander of the 124th Fighter Wing, Gowen Field, Boise, Idaho
POTUS then walked up to Air Force One before waving once in the direction of the service members and then again in the direction of the press. He boarded at 1:50 PM. We're off to Sacramento.



September 13, 202114:26 PDT

Travel pool report #9 Sacramento arrival
Air Force One landed at Mather Airport in Sacramento at 2:10 PM.
POTUS, now wearing sun glasses, exited Air Force One at 2:19 PM. Biden was making his way to the beast, when a staffer approached and mentioned something. He was too far for me to hear.
California Governor Gavin Newsom was then seen at 2:20 rushing over to Mr. Biden. Both men took off their masks and chatted briefly before entering the beast.
Were in the motorcade and rolling to Cal OES at 2:23 Pm.
FYI I tweeted photos from the Boise briefing @KannoYoungs (including one of Biden holding the axe).



September 13, 202115:17 PDT

Travel pool report #10 Cal OES
At 2:28 PM, we arrived at Cal OES, the governor's office of emergency services. Biden walked into the two story conference room at 2:30 PM with Gov. Newsom and Mark Ghilarducci, Director, California Governor's Office of Emergency Services.
Scores of OES officials filled four rows of seats, each sitting in front of a computer and a microphone. Dozens of other emergency workers and service members filled aisles off to the side.
"Hey everyone how are you?" Biden said immediately after walking in to loud applause from the standing audience.
Gov. Newsom then gave brief remarks. "I was joking with the President," he said. "This has been my office basically the last 18 months with covid and wildfires."
At 2:34 PM, Biden walked up close to the front row of workers and told everyone they could sit down. A couple giggles in the crowd.
"We have to act more rapidly and more firmly and more broadly than today," Biden told the crowd. "We can't afford to let anything slip further. It really is a matter of what the world will look like."
Biden then mentioned those who died in Queens, NY, from hurricane Ida. "People dying in basements," Biden said. "Folks, there's so much we can do."
"And some of my more conservative," Biden said before stopping himself. "Some of my less believing friends in this notion of global warming are all of a sudden having an altar call."
"They're seeing the lord," Biden said.
"We're the only country in the world that has gone through crises in our history and we came out stronger than we came in," Biden said.
The President said he has bipartisan support for his infrastructure proposal. He mentioned how he couldn't get all of his climate measures into that plan so he has included it in his reconciliation package.
"Whether that passes or not, exactly how much I don't know, but we're gonna get it passed," Biden said, adding it would include investments in resilience.
He then called for a "civilian climate board made up of thousands of kids, young people, looking for jobs."
Biden also said parents aren't just worried for their children when it comes to covid but also "whether they can breathe the air."
Biden said he spoke with Texas governor Greg Abbott today about hurricanes as well.
He then said thank you three times before ending his remarks at 2:41 PM and receiving a briefing from the emergency officials
POTUS, with the governor at his side, was shown a map of the wildfires and the response effort.
"It's just an extraordinary effort," Gov. Newsom said.
As he had in Boise, POTUS said firefighters should be paid more. "We owe them a whole hell of a lot more." He said it was a time for a "wake up call" and if federal firefighters are paid more it would pressure states to increase pay.
Biden then said if his spending proposals are passed it would grow the economy. "When you think climate change think of jobs."
Biden went around the room, shaking hands. He then led the signing of happy birthday for a female employee. An OES official tells the pool she is Joanna Bautista, 27 years old.
"How are ya? I just wanted to thank you," Biden said to a male employee. He then spotted a dog near his desk and knelt down to see it.
We left for Mather airport shortly before 3:10 and POTUS border marine one at 3:14 PM.
Attendee list from WH from OES briefing.
POTUS will walk into the Cal OES command center with Governor Gavin Newson and Mark Ghilarducci, Director, California Governor's Office of Emergency Services (Cal OES). They will be briefed by the following:

Thom Porter, Director and Fire Chief, California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (Cal Fire)
Jennifer Eberlien, Regional Forester – Pacific Southwest Region, U.S. Forest Service
Major General David Baldwin, California National Guard
Don Ashton, Chief Administrative Officer, El Dorado County
John D'Agostini, Sheriff, El Dorado County
Amanda Ray, Commissioner of the California Highway Patrol
Dolph Diemont, Federal Coordinating Officer, FEMA

Passing this along from a White House official…
Background on 2021 Wildfire Season
The 2021 wildfire season is outpacing the devastating 2020 season in terms of total acres burned.
· As of last week, over 43,869 wildfires have burned 5,165,103 acres of Federal, state, local, tribal, and private lands, compared to 4,969,162 acres at this point last year.
· On July 14th, the National Wildland Fire Preparedness Level (PL) was raised to Level 5 (of 5). This was the earliest we reached PL5 in the past 10 years, and as of next week it will also be the longest period of continuous time that it has remained at that highest level.
Unfortunately, challenging fire conditions will probably endure for at least several more weeks. Forecasters expect above average fire activity over the next two months in Northern California, the Pacific Northwest, and the Northern Rockies.
Background on Idaho Wildfires
The Idaho Bureau of Land Management reports nearly 1,200 fires and over 380,000 acres have burned so far this season across the state. The Trail Creek Fire, which is burning in Montana and Idaho has consumed 44,254 acres, is 29% contained. The fire has extended onto the Salmon-Challis National Forest in east central Idaho. The influx of smoke from this and other regional wildfires has caused many Idaho communities' Air Quality Index (AQI) to reach unhealthy levels. On Friday, Boise's AQI was 109, which is unhealthy for sensitive groups.
On July 9th, Governor Brad Little issued an emergency declaration for wildfires which he used to mobilize the Idaho State National Guard. The state has also been coordinating with the National Interagency Fire Center (NIFC) to address localized jet fuel supply problems at regional airports used for fire suppression operations and to secure jet fuel shipments through the Defense Logistics Agency.
Background on California Wildfires and the Caldor Fire
Since the start of 2021, the California Department of Forestry and Fire Protection (CAL FIRE), reports there have been 7,276 wildfires in California which have burned over 2.2 million acres.
The main fire affecting the region the President will be visiting is the Caldor fire, which ignited in El Dorado County on August 14, 2021, and rapidly expanded due to high heat and elevated fire weather conditions. In a matter of hours, over 35,000 acres burned, including much of the community of Grizzly Flats. Due to a historically dry season and limited historical fires in the area, the fire saw unprecedented growth ranging from 10,000 to 40,000 acres per day.
Federal Response – Caldor Fire
Gov. Newsom declared a State of Emergency for El Dorado County on August 17, 2021 due to the Caldor Fire and submitted a request for a Fire Management Assistance Grant (FMAG). The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) approved the FMAG on the same day, making Federal funds available to support wildfire response activities.
On September 1, 2021, the President approved an Emergency Declaration for the Caldor Fire on the same day it was requested by the Governor, authorizing direct Federal assistance for equipment and resources to alleviate the impacts of the fire for Alpine, Amador, El Dorado and Placer counties. Yesterday the President approved a Major Disaster Declaration for the Caldor Fire, authorizing Federal assistance to supplement State, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by the Caldor Fire.
There are nearly 4,000 multi-agency firefighters supporting this response, down from a peak of over 4,800 when conditions were at their worst. The response also includes hundreds of fire engines, dozens of helicopters, and numerous firefighting air tankers, including Department of Defense aircraft, flying fire suppression missions as weather conditions allow. The Department of Defense is also providing critical fire imagery with Distributed Real Time Infrared (DRTI) RC-26s aircraft to support plans for suppressing the fire.
Fire Mitigation Efforts – Caldor Fire
Despite the difficulty in managing the Caldor Fire, prior mitigation efforts such as fuel treatments have helped protect the communities of Christmas Valley, Meyers, and South Lake Tahoe, California. While even the most effective fuels treatments may not modify fire behavior when there are intense winds, the U.S. Forest Service assesses that these preventive actions have allowed time for safe evacuation, saved homes, and permitted firefighters to work more safely and aggressively to suppress the fire.
Previous POTUS Wildfire Engagement and Subsequent Actions
This trip will build on the President's June 30th convening with Western Governors, key Cabinet members, and utility executives, and his subsequent July 30th phone conversation with select Governors.
On June 30, the President announced a number of key initiatives, including: increasing firefighter pay to not less than $15 an hour; extending seasonal firefighter employment to ensure robust response throughout what we anticipated would be a lengthy fire season; deploying new fire detection and air monitoring technologies; and expanding Federal grant resources to support wildfire mitigation activities, including Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC) funding.
On July 30, the President heard directly from governors about the urgent situations in their states. The governors underscored their desires for more firefighting personnel and aviation assets, firefighting supplies, and access to technology and imagery.
Since the Presidents' call with Governors on July 30:
Firefighting Response

Aircraft: At the President's request, all eight available DOD C-130s with Modular Airborne Firefighting Systems are actively flying firefighting missions in support of the NIFC. Additionally, two DOD RC-26 aircraft with infrared detection capability continue to support fire detection and monitoring. These aircraft have flown over 1,000 missions across the Western U.S.


Active Duty Personnel: DOD has trained and deployed 250 active duty personnel from Joint Base Lewis-McChord to support ongoing firefighting efforts at the Dixie Fire in Northern California.


International support: Canada has deployed two "hand crews" (approximately 40 firefighters in total) to the NIFC. Both crews are being assigned to support firefighting efforts in Washington. Australia has extended the deployment of its Bomber 210 large air tanker, which has been assisting in fire suppression efforts.
International support: Canada has deployed two "hand crews" (approximately 40 firefighters in total) to the NIFC. Both crews are being assigned to support firefighting efforts in Washington. Australia has extended the deployment of its Bomber 210 large air tanker, which has been assisting in fire suppression efforts.


Fire detection and monitoring: In response to a request from California Gov. Newsom, we worked with DOD to ensure the extension of its Firefly system pilot program, also known in California as "FireGuard," through September 2022. Firefly is a National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency capability that provides imagery from satellites, drones, and other sensors, giving firefighters the exact location and shape of potential fires. This extension provides time to develop a long-term solution for future funding and operation of Firefly.

Supply Chain Assistance

The Biden-Harris Administration has exercised Defense Production Act (DPA) Title I authority to address a shortage of wildfire firehose stemming from a reduction in chemical resin manufacturing capacity caused by the February Texas winter storm as well as wider pandemic-driven supply chain disruptions.


Specifically, the Department of Commerce provided priority rating authority under the DPA to the U.S. Forest Service to direct the prioritized production and delivery of critical firehose materials, which helped to enable the restart of a firehose manufacturing facility in Oklahoma. This facility also employs blind and visually impaired workers.


As of today, 21,920 firehoses have been delivered to the regional caches using this authority. With sufficient supplies of materials, the manufacturing facility will be able to continue producing firehoses and pushing them to the frontlines.

Firefighter Pay

The President's initiative to increase firefighter pay began in August. Federal firefighters are now being paid no less than $15/hour.


Due to statutorily mandated pay caps, many Federal wildland fire fighters do not receive overtime pay for the hours they work and, in some cases, are required to pay back money that they already earned fighting fires. The President is committed to working with Congress to raise the pay cap for Federal wildland firefighters.

Fire Management Assistance Grants

To date, FEMA has approved 33 Fire Management Assistance Grants (FMAGs) to assist states with the mitigation, management, and control of wildland fires. FMAGs have been issued to the following states: Arizona, California, Hawaii, Idaho, Oregon, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, South Dakota, Utah, and Washington.

Fire Mitigation and Resilience

The Biden-Harris Administration continues to work to enhance national preparedness and resilience in the longer term. FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell has doubled BRIC program resources to $1 billion for FY 2021, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has produced a FY 2022 Budget that proposes over $30 billion to support wildfire management and related activities and disaster relief. This includes $1.1 billion in hazardous fuels and post-fire restoration funding, a 62% increase over FY 2021, which will be used to reduce wildfire hazards by addressing excessive biomass accumulation in vulnerable forests. The budget also provides nearly $5 billion in wildfire suppression funding.


The bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act that the Biden-Harris Administration has negotiated includes more than $8 billion to increase resilience to wildfires by providing funding for community wildfire defense grants, mechanical thinning, controlled burns, and firefighting resources. In addition, OMB included more than $14 billion in its Continuing Resolution package submitted to Congress on September 7 to fund unmet and continuing needs from disasters, including $9 billion that would specifically support communities hit by wildfires, droughts and hurricanes.




September 13, 202116:16 PDT

Travel pool report #11 Ospreys over damaged wildfire
We were loaded into ospreys and took off at roughly 3:20 PM. Biden observed the Grizzley Flats and the damage from the Caldor Fire from Marine One.
Shortly after ascending officials closed the back hatch of the aircraft, preventing us from having a view of the forest below.
Thanks to co-pooler Alex Leary unbuckling and marching to the front of the osprey to get a peak out of the window, we were able to still have eyes on marine one ahead of us.
At around 3:40 PM, it was clear enough outside for your pooler to see acres of green forests from another window in the aircraft.
Some of the tree-covered hills were lined with ridges that had a tint of brown and red. But we were unable to have clear visibility for the rest of the flight.
We landed at 3:55 PM at Sacramento Mather Airport.
Upon landing, your pooler looked at some of the photographs taken by Doug Mills of the NYT from the osprey. One image showed a ridge splitting a lush, green forest from miles of black, charred surface.
Marine One landed at 4:04 PM.
POTUS exited with the governor at 4:08 and was greeted by California Senate President pro Tempore Toni Atkins (SD-39), according to a White House official.
He then loaded into his motorcade to go to the remarks site.
Those remarks will be streamed here:
https://www.whitehouse.gov/live/



September 13, 202116:25 PDT

Travel pool report #12 remarks have started 
Biden/Newsom has begun speaking at the Sacramento county maintenance Hanger adjacent to the airport.



September 13, 202116:49 PDT

Travel pool report #13 // remarks over
The president and the governor stood at a podium in front of dozens of members of the press, as well as some first responders and emergency officials.
A fire truck was parked behind them. Three maps were also placed behind the officials.
The comments were streamed on  whitehouse.gov/live, as stated in an earlier report.
Gov. Newsom spoke first at 4:23 PM, thanking POTUS for his collaboration and focus on climate change.
"The president of the United States's commitment is demonstrable," Newsom said.
Biden then began speaking at 4:28. He described the damage inflicted by multiple wildfires on the west coast.
"The governor has led this state with poise and strong leadership," Biden said.
Biden repeated his comments earlier about how he used the defense production act to produce firehouses and how he directed the EPA to deliver wildfire information directly to cell phones (he mentioned this earlier in Boise).
"We can't ignore the reality that these wildfires are being supercharged by climate change," Biden said. "It isn't about red or blue states. It's about fires. Just fires."
Biden said "extreme weather" cost the United States 99 billion dollars and this year we will break that record.
"Each dollar we invest in resilience saves up to six dollars down the road," Biden said.
He stopped at 4:37 PM.
As they walked away a reporter shouted, "what do you think about the governor misrepresenting his administration's wildfire efforts?"
The president, walking away alongside he governor, turned and said, "he didn't."
He didn't answer any other shouted questions.
We're in the motorcade and rolling back to nearby AF1 at 4:47 PM.
A White House official send this:
Governor Newsom will join the President on Air Force One en route Long Beach.



September 13, 202116:54 PDT

Travel pool report #14 AF1 to Long Beach 
Pool was unloaded from the vans at 4:49 as POTUS and Governor Newsom entered AF1. Your pooler could not see them board. A White House official says each gave a wave before entering.
We're off to Long Beach.



September 13, 202117:01 PDT

Travel pool report #15 additional details/background
Missed this memo from the White House earlier. Apologies. Here it is:
Also, the dog Biden pet at the CAL OES had a harness on that said "don't pet" and "don't tread on me." The dog put up it's left paw to apparently pet Biden in return.
BACKGROUND MEMORANDUM
TO: Out-of-Town Travel Pool
FROM: White House Press Office
DATE: September 13, 2021
RE: Background on IIJA, BBB, ARP, and COVID Response for the President's Visit to California
Impact of the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act on California
The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act will make a generational investment in California's infrastructure and resilience:
Roads and bridges:
· In California there are 1,536 bridges and over 14,220 miles of highway in poor condition.
· Based on formula funding alone, California will receive $25.3 billion for federal-aid highways and $4.2 billion for bridges.
Public transportation:
· Californians who take public transportation spend an extra 67% of their time commuting. 16% of transit vehicles in California are past useful life.
· Based on formula funding alone, California will receive $9.45 billion to improve public transportation options.
High-speed internet:
· California will receive a minimum allocation of $100 million to help provide broadband coverage across the state, including providing access to the at least 545,000 Californians who currently lack it.
Resilience:
· From 2010 to 2020, California experienced 16 extreme weather events, costing the state up to $100 billion in damages.
· The bill includes a $50 billion national investment in resilience to bolster our country's infrastructure for the impacts of climate change and other threats, including funds to protect against floods, droughts, wildfires, and cyberattacks.
· Funding can go towards things like development of evacuation routes, upgrading community shelters, and hardening the power grid to reduce the impact of flooding and extreme cold and wind on maintaining power to the region.
Impact of the Build Back Better Plan on California
The Build Back Better Plan will make life better for millions of working families in California:
Tax Cut for Families with Children:
· There are 1.7 million children or 19% of children under the age of 18 in California who are considered poor.
· The plan's Child Tax Credit extension will benefit more than 7.8 million children in California and reduce child poverty in the state by 34%.
Tax Cut for Childless Workers:
· Before the Rescue Plan, low-income childless workers were taxed into poverty.
· Theplan's expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit for childless workers will benefit more than 2 million workers in California.
Child Care:
· The average annual cost of child care for an infant in California is $17,400, meaning a two-parent household needs to spend 18% of their income to afford care for one child every year.
· The plan ensures that no middle-class family pays more than 7% of their income for high-quality child care up to age 5.
Universal Pre-K:
· Less than 40% of 3- and 4-year-olds in California are enrolled in publicly-funded pre-school.
· The plan makes universal preschool a reality.
Higher Education:
· Only 53% of students in California complete a postsecondary degree within 6 years of enrolling.
· The plan provides at least two years of free community college to all students and expands the maximum Pell Grant by nearly $1,500, supporting the more than 945,000 students in California who rely on Pell Grants.
Housing:
· 3 million renters in California spend more than 30% of their income on rent.
· The plan will boost the supply of affordable housing by constructing or rehabilitating more than two million homes across the country.
American Rescue Plan Impact on California
· $27 billion in state fiscal relief.
· $18.5 billion in local fiscal relief.
· More than $15 billion in relief for K-12 schools.
· Economic impact payments of up to $1,400 per person (above the $600 per person provided in December) for more than 22 million adults and 9 million children. This is 80% of all adults in the state and 81% of all children in the state.
· Additional relief of up to $1,600 per child through the Child Tax Credit to the families of 7.8 million children, lifting 553,000 children out of poverty.
· Additional relief of up to nearly $1,000 through the Earned Income Tax Credit to 1.8 million childless workers, including many in frontline jobs.
· Marketplace health insurance premiums that are $1,270 lower per month for a 60-year old couple earning $75,000 per year.
· Over $5 billion in Emergency Rental Assistance.
California Vaccinations Update
· Residents with at least one dose: 27,697,192 people (70.1% of the total population, 83.7% of the adult population).
· Residents fully vaccinated: 22,576,549 people (57.1% of the total population, 68.4% of the adult population).
· The per capita rate of 1st dose administration is the 10th highest in the U.S.
Federal COVID-19 Support for California
Pharmacies: As of September 11, there are about 3,810 pharmacies in the state administering COVID-19 vaccine. Over 13.9 million doses have been administered in the state through participating pharmacies, since the program began.
Community Health Centers: The Biden-Harris Administration is delivering vaccine doses directly to 151 Community Health Centers (CHCs) in the state, spanning over 500 sites. As of 9/7, 3,326,000 doses have been delivered directly to CHCs in the state.
Federal Funding and Personnel: As of September 7, the Biden-Harris Administration has provided over $1 billion in FEMA funding to support vaccination operations in communities across the state. To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has deployed about 790 federal personnel to community vaccination centers in California, with 2 currently deployed. The Biden-Harris Administration has also provided federal funding for over 2,080 National Guard members to support the state's overall COVID-19 response, with 459 currently supporting.
Community Vaccination Centers: As of September 7, the Biden-Harris Administration has provided federal support for 73 community and pop-up vaccination centers in the state, in the form of federal funding, personnel, and/or equipment—with 67 currently operational. The Biden-Harris Administration previously stood up two FEMA vaccination sites at the Oakland Coliseum and California State University, Los Angeles, which together administered more than 774,500 shots in arms.



September 13, 202118:26 PDT

Travel pool report #16 Long Beach arrival 
AF1 arrived at Long Beach airport at 6:12 PM local time. With Governor Newsom trailing him, Biden exited the plane at 6:22 PM and hopped in the Beast. Motorcade rolling to Long Beach City college at 6:25 PM.



September 13, 202118:49 PDT

Travel pool report #17 Long Beach City college arrival 
Motorcade arrived at Long Beach City college at 6:36 PM. There were multiple groups of anti-Biden protesters spotted along the route. Just blocks from the school, there was a cluster of at least 200 (estimate) anti-Biden protesters holding signs that said "Trump won," "unvaxxed lives matter," and "recall newsom."
As we got closer to the entrance of the school, there were a line of families holding signs welcoming the president.
We're now in position at the main quad of Long Beach City college. Crowd of hundreds here. A sign at the front near the stage says "stop the Republican recall."
To the left, a golden lit sign says "Vote No," above a crowd of supporters waving flags and signs. Palm trees surround the quad.



September 13, 202119:28 PDT

Travel pool report #18 Biden Remarks at Long Beach
The president took the stage at 10:24 PM at Long Beach City college to applause from the crowd gathered on the main quad. He walked on to "California Soul" by Marlena Shaw. Gov. Newsom just finished speaking.
Very, very faint Donald Trump cheers can be heard coming from behind the press area.
Follow along here:
https://twitter.com/GavinNewsom/status/1437577228510916610?s=20



September 13, 202119:45 PDT

Travel pool report #19 Biden Remarks wrapped
Biden finished his remarks at 10:39 PM.
Also, apologize for leaving a digit off of the last pool report number. It was not Pool Report #1, but rather #18. I regret the error.
The President spoke for about 15 minutes. He pushed for voters to vote no on the recall, citing Newsom's record on the pandemic, women's rights and climate change and minimum wage.
I should note that POTUS coughed at least eight times in the address, taking an occasional drink of water.
"Voting no will be protecting California from Trump," Biden said.
"For these Republican governors it isn't about public health, it's about politics," Biden said. "Just look at the hypocrisy. The same governors attacking me and your governor for Covid-19 mandates are in states with some of the strictest vaccine mandates for children in the whole country."
"We need science, we need courage, we need leadership. We need Gavin Newsom," Biden said.
"A governor who follows science, who's got the courage to do what's right," Biden said.
"To me it's pretty basic, if you're working a 40-hour week, you shouldn't be living in poverty," Biden said, raising voice.
"You either keep Gavin Newsom as your governor or you get Donald Trump," Biden said. "The choice should be absolutely clear. Gavin Newsom. You have a governor who has the courage to lead."
"Don't take anything for granted," Biden said.
"The eyes of the nation are upon you," Biden said.
Biden, Newsom and Jennifer Siebel Newsom exited the stage at 10:42 after waving to supporters. They walked off to "Stop in the name of love," by Diana Ross and the Supremes.



September 13, 202119:54 PDT

Travel pool report #20 More from Biden/Newsome
Passing along from the White House:
There are approximately 850 people in attendance for tonight's event.
Program:

Keena Mapanao, Critical Care Nurse, United Nurses Associations of California/Sharp Grossmont Hospital (performed the National Anthem)
Ron Herrera, President, Los Angeles County Federation of Labor
E. Toby Boyd, President, California Teachers Association (CTA)
April Verrett, President, Service Employees International Union (SEIU) Local 2015
Supervisor Janice Hahn, County of Los Angeles Board of Supervisors
Assemblymember Patrick O'Donnell (AD-70)
State Senator Lena A. Gonzalez (SD-33)
Congressman Alan Lowenthal (CA-47)
State Controller Betty T. Yee
Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis
State Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara
State Treasurer Fiona Ma
State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond
Jaime Harrison, DNC Chair
Rusty Hicks, California Democratic Party Chair
Performance by Mariachi Divas
Sherifat Ahmed-Momoh, a Dreamer and student at Long Beach City College
First Partner Jennifer Siebel Newsom
Long Beach Mayor Robert Garcia
Senator Alex Padilla
Governor Gavin Newsom
The President




September 13, 202120:22 PDT

Travel pool report #21 Rolling to the Westin
We packed into the motorcade at roughly 8 PM.
POTUS did a photo line although we do not yet have the attendees.
We're rolling to the Westin at 8:19 PM.



September 13, 202120:45 PDT

Travel pool report #22 LID// Westin/LID 
Motorcade arrived the Westin at 8:43 PM. We have a LID.
Thanks for tolerating me!



September 13, 202120:58 PDT

Travel pool report #23 //one more backgrounder 
Passing along from the WH:
Updated crowd count: Approximately 1,100 people attended tonight's rally.
After the event, the President participated in a photo line with elected officials and local leaders, including:

Hilda Solis, Chair, Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
Mayor Eric Garcetti, City of Los Angeles
Congressman Alan Lowenthal (CA-47)
Lieutenant Governor Eleni Kounalakis
State Treasurer Fiona Ma
State Controller Betty T. Yee
State Superintendent of Public Instruction Tony Thurmond
State Insurance Commissioner Ricardo Lara
Supervisor Janice Hahn, Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
State Senator Lena A. Gonzalez (SD-33)
Assemblymember Patrick O'Donnell (AD-70)
Frank Lima, General Secretary-Treasurer, International Association of Fire Fighters (IAFF)
Brian Rice, President, California Professional Firefighters





  