
    HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, today named Constantin Querard as Arizona State Director and Jason Scalese as California State Director for the Cruz for President campaign. Scalese joins Ron Nehring who was previously announced as Sen. Cruz's California State Chairman.
"I am thrilled to have Constantin and Jason joining our team," said Cruz. "Constantin is an experienced veteran of campaigns who can build a top-notch organization for us in Arizona. With Jason's knowledge of California politics and grassroots organizing, he'll be an important addition to our effort in the Golden State. These additions to our growing and impressive leadership teams across the country are more evidence that we are putting together an incredibly competitive campaign and will be successful. I would stack our operation up against anyone else in the race."
Constantin Querard is the founder and president of Grassroots Partners, LLC. He has been active in Arizona and Colorado politics for more than two decades, working on a variety of campaigns for pro-family candidates and causes. In 2013, Campaigns & Elections magazine named him one of Arizona's 5 GOP Influencers, and this year he was named "Best Campaign Consultant" by the Arizona Capital Times. His pro-family work history includes founding the Arizona Family Project, serving as the Executive Director of Citizens for Arizona Policy and CAP-PAC, and working as Director of Development for Arizona Right to Life. Constantin and his wife Lisa are blessed with two girls, Tatiana and Katerina, and a boy, Alexander.
"When I was asked what qualities I was looking for in a President I answered 'leadership, unshakable conservative core convictions, respect for the Constitution, and a strong desire to return our country to its rightful place in the world," said Querard. "I'm thrilled to be working for Senator Cruz — a candidate who fulfills my entire wish list!"
Jason Scalese currently serves as the Managing Partner of Fusion Strategies, a Republican consulting firm in California. He has managed operations, grassroots and finance for local, statewide and federal campaigns. Jason previously served in similar roles for Newt Gingrich, Herman Cain and Fred Thompson. He is active with his county party, and has served as a CA GOP Delegate. Jason resides in Northern California, where he is married with two children.
"I'm thrilled to be serving with the Cruz campaign. I believe that the Senator is a once in a generation leader who will protect religious liberty, defend our country and our constitution, and make us proud to call him our President," said Scalese. "With the largest delegation headed to Cleveland for the RNC in 2016, we will be working hard to make sure California is Cruz Country!"
  