
    "It's time for Senators to stand up and confirm Brett Kavanaugh."
Confirm Brett KavanaughEditorialThe Wall Street JournalSeptember 27, 2018
Thursday's Senate hearing on Brett Kavanaugh's Supreme Court nomination was an embarrassment that should have never happened. Judge Kavanaugh was right to call the confirmation process a "disgrace" in his passionate self-defense, and whatever one thinks of Christine Blasey Ford's assault accusation, she offered no corroboration or new supporting evidence.
…
As for Judge Kavanaugh, his self-defense was as powerful and emotional as the moment demanded. If he was angry at times, imagine how you would feel if you were so accused and were innocent as he says he is. To deny the allegations as he did—invoking his children and parents and so many others who know him—and be lying would mean that he is a sociopath. If he were found to be lying, he would be impeached and probably prosecuted. Nothing in his long record in public life betrays the kind of behavior he is accused of against women.
Had he not been as forceful, his opponents would have said he looked guilty. Because he called the Democrats out for their character assassination, the critics now say he lacks the right temperament. The truth is that there is no answer, and no demeanor, that Brett Kavanaugh could offer that the left would credit. Their goal isn't the truth. They want to destroy Judge Kavanaugh.
…
Senate Republicans should understand that these are the real political stakes. This nomination isn't only about the fate of a single man whose reputation can be discarded like some tabloid celebrity. This is about the future of the Supreme Court and who will control the Senate.
…
But as important, a rejection will bring dishonor to the Senate. It will validate the ambush and smear politics that Democrats are using. And it will turn Supreme Court nominations over to the justice of the social-media mob and the politics of accusation. It's time for Senators to stand up and confirm Brett Kavanaugh.
Read the full editorial here.
  