
    ORLANDO, Fla. — As his campaign strengthens and gains support, Gov. Rick Perry's conservative agenda and record were again the center of attention at the FOX New Channel/ Google debate in Orlando, Florida tonight.
Perry shared his steadfast commitment to get America working again as the next president of the United States, defended his conservative economic and social policy record in Texas and reiterated his goal to speak honestly and effectively about reforming Social Security to protect current and near beneficiaries and fix it for younger workers.
"Americans are concerned with getting our economy back on track to prosperity and creating the jobs that Americans are desperately looking for," said Gov. Perry. "I am proud of the record I have in Texas working to create an environment that creates jobs and in turn opportunity for our people, and I look forward to applying our blueprint for success at the national level — a model based on restrained spending, low taxes, predictable regulations and a fair legal climate."
On job creation, Gov. Perry has the best record of job creation among all the candidates, including President Obama. Texas has created more than one million net new jobs under Gov. Perry and is home to approximately 40 percent of all net new jobs in America since June 2009.
Perry contrasted his renowned pro-jobs record with the failed record of former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, who signature accomplishment — government-mandated health care — was the model for the job-killing federal ObamaCare. Romney's Massachusetts was 47th in job creation during his term in office.
Gov. Perry's strong record of cutting taxes, signing six balanced budgets, reducing general revenue spending and leading America's top job-creating state makes him the candidate America needs to create jobs and get our nation's fiscal house in order. In fact, he is the only Texas governor since World War II to cut state general revenue spending.
For information setting the record straight about various statements made during the debate, please visit http://www.rickperry.org/p5-debate-recap/, or follow @PerryTruthTeam on Twitter
  