
    AT THE invitation of President Johnson, His Excellency General Ne Win, Chairman of the Revolutionary Council of the Union of Burma, has paid a state visit to the United States of America. During his visit, the Chairman met with the President and leading members of the United States Government.
The Chairman and Madame Ne Win and the members of their party were accorded a warm welcome and were extended cordial hospitality by the government and the people of the United States. The Chairman expressed his sincere thanks to the government and the people of the United States for their welcome and hospitality.
During the visit the President and the Chairman discussed the further development of the friendly relations existing between the United States and the Union of Burma and exchanged views on international questions of common interest. These discussions were held in an atmosphere of cordiality and mutual understanding.
The President expressed his understanding of the policy of peace and nonalignment pursued by the Union of Burma and his respect for its sovereignty and independence. The Chairman expressed his understanding of the policy of the United States towards Burma and appreciation for the friendly attitude of the American people. The two leaders affirmed their determination to strengthen the friendly relations between their two countries in the mutual interest of their two peoples and in the service of the cause of peace and international understanding.
During their discussions, the President and the Chairman reviewed recent developments in South and Southeast Asia in the context of the universal desire of people everywhere to achieve peace and a better life. The President expressed his deep and abiding interest in the achievement of peace and stability in Southeast Asia which would permit the countries of the area in friendly cooperation with each other to devote their energies to economic development and the enrichment of the lives of their peoples. In this connection, he explained the policies the United States is pursuing to help the people of the Republic of Vietnam to defend their freedom and to reconstruct their war-torn society and his efforts, which he is determined to pursue with the greatest vigor, in behalf of an early settlement for peace with justice. The Chairman expressed Burma's desire for a political settlement of the Vietnam question on the basis of respect for her sovereignty, independence, unity and territorial integrity.
The two leaders reaffirmed their earnest desire for an early and peaceful settlement in Vietnam.
The President and the Chairman reaffirmed their belief that mutual respect, non-interference, and equality among all states are the basic principles underlying the creation of a stable, peaceful international order. The two leaders agreed that every nation should have the right to choose its own political, economic and social system and its own way of life free from any outside interference or pressure.
The President and the Chairman reiterated the support of their countries for the United Nations and emphasized the need for it to develop into an increasingly effective instrument not only for the maintenance of international peace and security but also for the promotion of friendly relations and cooperation among nations and peoples for their economic and social advancement.
The two leaders stressed the urgent need to secure general and complete disarmament under effective international control. They were deeply concerned over the serious dangers inherent in the spread of nuclear weapons and expressed the hope that the Nuclear Test Ban Treaty would be extended to cover underground tests as well and that the Eighteen Nation Disarmament Committee would devote itself with a sense of urgency and determination to the conclusion of a treaty to halt the proliferation of nuclear weapons.
The President and the Chairman expressed their satisfaction at having the opportunity to become personally acquainted. They were confident that the personal esteem that marked their frank and friendly talks would promote greater understanding between the United States and the Union of Burma and further strengthen the bonds of friendship and cooperation between them.
  