
    Pool Reports by Jonathan Lemire, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




September 20, 202309:33

Travel Pool #1: Checking in - NYC/UNGA
Good morning on a beautiful day in Midtown Manhattan. I will be your pooler for the day, which will see the president meet a pair of foreign leaders, attend two fundraisers and then return to Washington.
Pool convened at the RON, the Intercontinental New York Barclay Hotel, about a half mile from the United Nations. This is where the president will hold the majority of today's events.
Any questions, please let me know. Today's upcoming schedule is below:
10:15 AM THE PRESIDENT participates in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of IsraelNew York, New YorkOut-of-Town Pool Spray
1:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a bilateral meeting with President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of BrazilNew York, New YorkOut-of-Town Pool Spray 
1:45PM THE PRESIDENT and President Luiz Inácio Lula of Brazil launch the Partnership for Workers' RightsNew York, New York  Out-of-Town Pool
4:15 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign receptionNew York, New YorkRestricted Out-of-Town Pool 
6:00 PM THE PRESIDENT participates in a campaign reception; THE SECOND GENTLEMAN participatesNew York, New YorkRestricted Out-of-Town Pool 
7:10 PM THE PRESIDENT departs New York, New York en route to Queens, New York,Wall Street Landing Zone, New York, New YorkOut-of-Town Pool
7:35 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Queens, New York, en route to Joint Base AndrewsJohn F. Kennedy International Airport, Queens, New YorkOut-of-Town Pool
7:15 PM In-Town Pool Call Time
8:45 PM THE PRESIDENT departs Joint Base Andrews en route to the White HouseJoint Base AndrewsOut-of-Town Pool
8:55 PM THE PRESIDENT arrives at the White HouseSouth LawnOpen Press (Gather 8:45 PM – Palm Room Doors)



September 20, 202310:49

Travel Pool #2: Waiting to gather
The pool is still waiting to gather for POTUS' bilat with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu.
It is the first event of the day and yet we are, remarkably, already quite behind schedule. No explanation has been provided for the delay



September 20, 202311:07

Travel Pool #3: Netanyahu Bilat
Pool entered the bilat room at the Intercontinental at 10:52 am. With a series of U.S. and Israeli flags as backdrops, POTUS and the Israeli prime minister sat in chairs next to each other. Each nation's delegation flanked their leader. POTUS is wearing a red tie out of solidarity with the striking UAW workers, the White House said.
Both men delivered brief opening remarks. POTUS spoke first, reminiscing about how long he has known Netanyahu. He said that "I hope we will see each other in Washington by the end of the year."
POTUS then marked Israel's 75th anniversary, touted common goals to "build and more stable and prosperous Middle East" and the new economic corridor that was agreed to at the recent G20.
Biden said the men would talk about "hard issues" including upholding "democratic values" and the need for "checks and balances," a seeming nod to the PM's recent judicial overhaul proposal. POTUS went onto to declare that Iran could never be allowed a nuclear weapon.
POTUS then noted that, even a decade ago, the idea of normalization of relations between Israel and Saudi Arabia would be unthinkable and expressed hope for its success.
He wrapped after three minutes. The prime minister then spoke, and again praised the long relationship. He said our current era was a "time of great promise" but also "great danger." He agreed with both the president's sentiment about the new economic corridor and the prospect of normalization with Riyadh.
Netanyahu then said that Israel shared "a commitment to democracy" and that the two nations would continue to work together to face common challenges.
Pool exited the bilat room at 10:58 am. POTUS ignored shouted questions about whether he feared for the future of democracy in Israel and what the Palestinians would need to achieve in a normalization deal
Fuller quotes TK



September 20, 202311:14

Travel Pool #4: More from Israel bilat
A few fuller quotes from the POTUS-Netanyahu meeting:
POTUS:
"You've heard me say many times that if there was no Israel, we'd have to invent one."
"Today, we're going to discuss some of the hard issues, that is upholding democratic values that lie at the heart of our partnership, including the checks and balances in our systems and preserving the path to a negotiated two state solution, and ensuring that Iran never, never acquires a nuclear weapon."
"Even where we have some differences, my commitment to Israel, you know, is ironclad. I think without Israel, there's not a Jew in the world who is secure. Israel is essential."
"If you and I 10 years ago were talking about normalization with Saudi Arabia, I think we'd look at each other like, 'who's been drinking what?'"
Netanyahu:
"I think that under your leadership, Mr. President, we can forge a historic peace between Israel and Saudi Arabia. And I think such a peace would go a long way for us to advance the end of the Arab Israeli conflict, achieve reconciliation between the Islamic world and the Jewish state and advance a genuine peace between Israel and the Palestinians."
"As I said, we live in — and you said — we live in uncertain times, rapidly changing times. So I want to reassert here before you, Mr. President, that one thing is certain, and one thing will never change. And that is Israel's commitment to democracy. We will continue to uphold the values that both our proud democracies cherish."
And this is provided by the White House:
The President is participating in a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Jon Finer, Assistant to the President and Principal Deputy National Security AdvisorT.H. Brett McGurk, Deputy Assistant to the President and Coordinator for the Middle East and North Africa, National Security CouncilT.H. Amos Hochstein, Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to the President for Energy and InvestmentT.H. Barbara Leaf, Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern AffairsMs. Samantha Sutton, Director for Israel and Palestinian Affairs, National Security Council
Israel ManifestH.E. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime Minister of IsraelH.E. Ron Dermer, Minister of Strategic AffairsH.E. Michael Herzog, Ambassador to the United StatesMr. Tzachi Henegbi, National Security Advisor and Head of the National Security CouncilMr. Tzachi Braverman, Chief of StaffAmbassador Gilad ErdanMajor General Avi Gil, Military SecretaryDr. Ophir Falk, Foreign Policy Advisor



September 20, 202311:46

Travel report #5: Biden on UAW
One more quote to share from POTUS at the Israel bilat, this one captured by our radio pooler, NPR's Tamara Keith.
As the pool was being herded from the room, several Israel-related questions were shouted. POTUS then turned to Netanyahu and said:
"Surprised they haven't asked me about the auto strike. They usually ask about things that have nothing to do with what we're talking about."
Pool notes that it would be happy to engage the president in questions about any number of topics. And we retain the right to ask about the auto strike later in the day



September 20, 202313:44

Travel Report #6: Brazil bilat
At 1:26 pm, pool moved to a different and bigger bilat room at the RON, this time for POTUS' meeting with President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil.
The setup was similar as to before, with Brazilian flags replacing Israeli ones. The two men stood to shake hands and then made introductory remakes. POTUS went first, noted that Lula told him at the White House a few months ago that they had an "obligation to make a better world" and that he agreed. POTUS said the two nations were working in "lockstep to tackle the climate crisis" as well as work to preserve the Amazon rainforest.
POTUS noted the led the two largest democracies in the Western Hemisphere and that they would stand up for human rights, including workers' rights. He said the two men would be kicking off a new workers rights initiative later today (the next event). He concluded a few moments later
Lula then spoke and affirmed the need for the nations to work together on climate change and creating economic opportunity. Biden then spoke again, citing his father, and repeated his usual call to build economies that help workers and the middle class and not just the rich. The Brazilian leader then concurred and said that it was important that "hope overcome fear" and to find good "decent" work to provide for their families. When Lula noted that he only possessed a vocational degree, POTUS pumped his fist in support.
Pool exited the room at 1:38 pm. Pool followed through on its pledge to ask about the UAW strike. POTUS did not respond.
Fuller quotes TK



September 20, 202313:59

Travel pool #7: More from Lula bilat
Some fuller quotes from the spray at the top of the Brazil bilat:
POTUS:
"The two largest democracies in the Western Hemisphere are standing up for human rights around the world and in the hemisphere. That includes workers' rights, and I'm honored we're going to launch a new partnership for workers' rights in just a few moments."
"My father did not have a college degree but he was a well-read man and he worked very hard his whole life. He would say 'Joe, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.' It's about your dignity. It's about self-respect. It's about being able to look your children in the eye and say 'Honey, it is going to be okay and mean it.'"
Lula:
"I worked 27 years inside the plant. I've seen unemployment. I've experienced unemployment."
"I believe the relationship between the US and Brazil will be improved and we can behave as friends seeking a common objective: development and improving the lives of everyone."



September 20, 202314:15

Travel pool #8: SAO on Israel
A senior administration official met with the pool for an impromptu briefing on the Biden-Bibi bilat. Here is a transcript of most of the answers:
"A very constructive, very candid - ultimately we hope productive - exchange that really only President Joe Biden could have with Bibi Netanyahu."
"The process on going as the President said the spray on Saudi Arabia was discussed at some depth and I'm just not going to get into the details of that."
"But obviously the need for stability in the West Bank, we are concerned about violence in the West Bank, concerned about settler violence, concerned about terrorists violence There were some I think, very constructive ideas about the way forward."
Q: On what needs to be done for the Palestinians for normalization:
A: "Normalization is a very complicated issue. Those of us working on it, and nobody has ever said this is right around the corner. We've worked on this for some time. We have been making some progress, but it's typical. And there's some ways to travel on this before we get there."
"I think it's obvious that a move like this by Saudi Arabia will require a component dealing with the fundamental issue between Israelis and Palestinians. But beyond that, I don't want to get ahead of process or what that might look like. But I think that is very well known. I thought they had a pretty constructive discussion about about that."
Q: Acknowledgement by Netanyahu that the Palestinians can't be left behind on this?
A: "I will say, I think there's a common understanding amongst all the leaders about this very historic step between Israel and Saudi Arabia, that, all the leaders involved in this have to do some very hard things, and that includes the Prime Minister of Israel, and that includes some component related to the fundamental issue between Israelis and Palestinians. I think yes, it was understood that that will be a component of the deal. I actually think the Prime Minister and his team have spoken to that after the meeting."
"But I think there is a basic meeting of the minds on not only the importance of that issue but some of the contours of what what would be required."
Q: About the invitation of Netanyahu to the WH:
"In terms of the President's invitation to the prime minister for the end of the year, we have not obviously finalized dates or anything."
Q: On a meeting with Netanyahu alone:
A: "Part of the meeting they met in a restricted session, so just the two of them, which is fairly standard, particularly with the President and Prime minister."
Q: On judicial reform, has Netanyahu's position changed at all?
A: "I don't want to speak for the Israeli leadership or the Prime Minister, but it is our sense that that there is an understanding that there needs to be a way forward there that involves compromise. And again, we're hopeful that they can get there and again, the President has made his views on this issue very clear, publicly, and privately, and he did so again."
Q: Agreement between the US and Netanyahu on what needs to happen re: the Palestinians?
A: "I think we're at the point in this process where it's generally known components of what the overall package will be. And we're now working through the details, which are very hard. And so I just don't want to get into the specifics because once I opened it up. But I would just say that, that component of this overall package deal which will be a package deal, if it comes to fruition, was discussed, and I think there's an understanding that that is an important component of the overall deal."
Q: On whether the US and Israel see generally eye to eye on the Saudi civilian nuclear program?
A: "Whatever is done regarding civil nuclear cooperation with Saudi Arabia or anybody else, will meet stringent us Non Proliferation standards.'
Q: Mutual defense pact?
A: "I will say there is a security component to the deal. There are a number of components to the deal. A number of components that are fundamentally in the interests of the United States of America. That's one reason we are obviously pursuing but also the potential global dimensions"



September 20, 202314:42

Travel Pool #9: Labor Event Begins
President Biden entered a ballroom at the RON at 2:41 pm to participate in a labor event with Brazil's president. The proceedings are being live-streamed on the White House website



September 20, 202314:58

Travel Pool #10: Labor Event Ends
The labor event ended at 2:56 pm. To the surprise of no one, President Lula spoke at much greater length than President Biden. Pool will soon be heading to the motorcade to travel to the first of two fundraisers the president is attending today
And two notes from the WH:
The President participated in a bilateral meeting with President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil:
U.S. ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Janet Yellen, Secretary of TreasuryT.H. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Representative of the United States of America to the United NationsT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Elizabeth Bagley, United States Ambassador to BrazilT.H. John Kerry, Special Presidential Envoy for ClimateT.H. Chris Dodd, Special Presidential Advisor for the AmericasT.H. Juan Gonzalez, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Western Hemisphere, NSC
Brazil ManifestH.E. Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, President of BrazilMauro Vieira, Minister of Foreign AffairsFernando Haddad, Minister of FinanceMarina Silva, Minister of the Environment and Climate ChangeSenator Jaques Wagner, Government Leader in the Federal SenateAmbassador Celso Amorim, Chief AdvisorAmbassador Maria Luiza Viotti, Ambassador of Brazil to the USAmbassador Sérgio Danese, Permanent Representative of Brazil to the United NationsAmbassador Audo Faleiro, Deputy Chief Advisor
——
In attendance for the President's launch of the Partnership for Workers' Rights with President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva of Brazil:
Director General Gilbert Houngbo, International Labor OrganizationU.S. and Brazilian labor leaders and delegation members
Speaking ProgramThe PresidentPresident Luiz Inácio Lula da SilvaDirector General Gilbert Houngbo



September 20, 202315:42

Travel Pool #11: Departing RON
The motorcade pulled away from the RON at 3:41 pm. Destination: the first of the day's two fundraisers.



September 20, 202315:54

Travel Pool #12: Arriving first fundraiser
The motorcade came to a stop on Manhattan's Upper East Side at 3:47 pm. It was an uneventful ride, mostly spent going the wrong way (north) up a closed 5th Avenue and taking us past thousands of cell phone-carrying onlookers as well as Trump Tower.
We arrived at an apartment building on the corner of E. 65th St alongside Central Park. Pool is now holding.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President via motorcade:
Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsCurtis Ried, Deputy Assistant to the President & NSC Chief of Staff & Executive SecretaryJohn McCarthy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip Director



September 20, 202316:36

Travel Pool #13: POTUS remarks
POTUS began speaking at 4:09 pm.
His remarks were given in a well-appointed living room after an introduction by the event's host, Amy Goldman Fowler. About two dozen people were in attendance.
After briefly touting his economic record, POTUS reflected on his decision to seek the presidency. He told the story about the events of Charlottesville in 2017 as the reason for his campaign. A few minutes later, he told the story again, nearly word for word.
Reading mostly from prepared notes, he declared than that "our democracy was at risk." He evoked the 2020 election and the insurrection and recalled the trying times when he took office. He joked about his age - saying that though he looked 30, he knew why people talked about it - and said he believed that the nation could still be united.
He mostly stuck to familiar campaign points, adding: "I am running because we made progress, and that's good, but I believe our democracy is still at risk"
He declared that "democracy was on the ballot again" in 2024 and feels like his predecessor - whom he said seemed near certain to win the GOP nomination - wanted to dismantle the nation's institutions.
He also recited a number of other reasons to run: abortion rights, mass shootings, book burnings, and more. And while he never used Trump's name, he alluded repeatedly to the threat he believed his predecessor posed.
Telling the audience that he appreciated "letting me take another shot at this," POTUS concluded at 4:29 pm and pool was shown out. A familiar face in the audience: the actor Richard Schiff, whom POTUS acknowledged at one point.
From the WH on behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President is attending a fundraiser hosted by Amy Goldman Fowler benefiting the Biden Victory Fund.
Speaking ProgramAmy Goldman FowlerThe President



September 20, 202316:50

Travel Pool #14: Back to RON
Motorcade pulled way from the Upper East Side at 4:45 pm and rolled back down 5th Ave past St Patrick's Cathedral and Rockefeller Center. We arrived back at the Intercontinental four minutes later.
We are now getting ready for the day's second fundraiser, which is here at the hotel.



September 20, 202318:03

Travel Pool #15: POTUS Remarks - Second fundraiser
POTUS entered the ballroom at the hotel at 5:42 pm. The fundraiser is dubbed "Lawyers for Biden" and notable lawyer, Second Gentleman Doug Emhoff, is in attendance. POTUS also pointed out former White House chief of staff Ron Klain, who was in the back of the room, as well as the mother of Secretary of State Blinken. A shade under 100 people are in attendance.
The president's remarks were very similar to those from the previous fundraiser though delivered more forcefully. He discussed his record, Charlottesville as the impetus for his campaign, the idea that democracy is on the ballot. He also referred to his speech at Independence Hall a year ago about threats to democracy and said he would give another on that subject soon.
Biden previewed the 2024 race and hinted at a rematch with Trump: "It's likely going to be the same fella and I think I am going to beat him again."
As for MAGA Republicans, he said some of them "make George Wallace look like a liberal."
POTUS also promised some climate change initiatives in the coming days but did not provide any details. He finished speaking at 6:01 pm.
From the WH on behalf of the Biden-Harris campaign:
The President is attending a fundraiser hosted by Lawyers for Biden benefiting the Biden Victory Fund. The Second Gentleman will attend.
Speaking ProgramBrad KarpThe President



September 20, 202318:13

Travel Pool #16: Heading to Landing Zone
Pool has loaded the motorcade for the president's departure from New York. The first leg of the journey will be the drive to the Wall St Landing Zone where Marine One awaits.
We are rolling at 6:11 pm. We are now more than a half hour ahead of schedule



September 20, 202318:33

Travel Pool #17: M1 lifts
We arrived at the Wall St landing zone at 6:27 pm. It was an uneventful ride along a closed FDR Drive. The setting sun created a beautiful view over the East River, the Brooklyn Bridge and the piers of Brooklyn Bridge Park.
We did not see POTUS board M1. Pool is now on Osprey, we will all be lifting soon



September 20, 202319:01

Travel Pool #18: AF1 Wheels Up
M1 touched down at JFK Airport at 6:47 pm. POTUS stepped off a few minutes later and strode to a waiting AF1. He waved at the pool but declined to come over and answer questions.
He then went up the small stairs and onto AF1. We are wheels up at 7:01 pm back to Washington. And we should note that the in-flight meal is good NYC pizza
From the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to John F. Kennedy International Airport:
The Second GentlemanJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the President



September 20, 202319:57

Travel Pool #19: Wheels down JBA
AF1 was wheels down at Joint Base Andrews at 7:39 pm. POTUS disembarked a few minutes later and, with a brief wave to the pool, walked over to M1. The president did not take any questions from the pool all trip.
He lifted at 7:57 pm and I am now handing off to the in-town pool.
My thanks to the rest of the pool and especially co-pooler Michael Shear of the NYT for all of his help. Have a good night, all.
And two last notes from the WH:
Traveling with the President aboard Air Force One en route to Joint Base Andrews:
The Second GentlemanJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office OperationsKarine Jean-Pierre, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryVinay Reddy, Assistant to the President & Director of SpeechwritingBen LaBolt, Assistant to the President & Director of CommunicationsJohn McCarthy, Deputy Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the Counselor to the PresidentTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorCharlie Fromstein, Director for Visits and Diplomatic Affairs, National Security CouncilAriana Berengaut, Senior Advisor to the National Security Advisor
---
Traveling with the President aboard Marine One en route to the White House:
Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffSteve Ricchetti, Assistant to the President & Counselor to the PresidentAnnie Tomasini, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President & Director of Oval Office Operations




 
Pool Reports below by Geoff Earle, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




September 20, 202320:24

In-town pool report 1 - WH arrival and lid
M1 touched down at 8:07 pm, in the dark but ahead of schedule, after Potus wrapped up his UNGA events and funders.
Potus, unaccompanied, waived as he walked by pool, ignoring a series of questions on his son's IRS lawsuit, the UAW strike, impeachment, and Zelensky.
We have a lid.
Goodnight all.




  