
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate two individuals, appoint six individuals and designate one individual to serve in his Administration:
The President intends to nominate David Hale, of New Jersey, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan. A career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Mr. Hale serves as the Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Amman, Jordan. Prior to this, he served as Director of the Office of Israel and Palestinian Affairs at the Department of State. He also served as the Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon. Earlier in his career, Mr. Hale served as a political officer at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. Mr. Hale received his bachelor's degree from Georgetown University.
The President intends to nominate Dorrance Smith, of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Defense for Public Affairs. Mr. Smith recently served as a media consultant for the Joint Congressional Committee on Inaugural Ceremonies. He previously served as a Senior Media Advisor for the Coalition Provision Authority in Baghdad, Iraq. Prior to that, Mr. Smith served as a Senior Media Adviser and Consultant for the Federal Emergency Management Agency. Earlier in his career, he was Executive Producer for ABC News' This Week with David Brinkley and ABC News' Nightline. He also served as Assistant to the President for Media Affairs during President George H.W. Bush's Administration. Mr. Smith received his bachelor's degree from Claremont Men's College.
The President intends to designate Thomas O. Barnett, of Virginia, to be Acting Assistant Attorney General for the Antitrust Division at the Department of Justice.
The President intends to appoint the following individuals to be Members of the President's Export Council:
Sharon L. Allen of California
John Sau Chung Chen of California
James F. Dicke, II of Ohio
Hamilton E. James of New York
Prakash V. Puram of Minnesota
Timothy Paul Smucker of Ohio
  