
    The Rudy Giuliani Presidential Committee today announced the state leadership team for Florida First Responders for Rudy. The team will be led by Seminole County Sheriff Don Eslinger and Captain David Garafolo of the Pasco County Fire Rescue Department.
Joining Eslinger and Garofalo, who were previously announced as Co-Chairs of the National First Responders for Rudy, are Vincent Champion, an Ormond Beach law enforcement officer; Jim Coats, Sherriff of Pinellas County; and Charlie Wells, former Sheriff of Manatee County. They will serve as Co-Chairs of Law Enforcement for Rudy. Brian Muldowney, a Hillsborough County Firefighter, will serve as Co-Chair of Firefighters for Rudy.
"Floridians know that Mayor Giuliani's strong leadership helped transform New York City into the safest large city in our nation, and they know that he is the principled leader we need in our next President. I am proud to be a national co-chair of First Responders for Rudy and help lead the efforts in Florida," Sheriff Eslinger said.
"Our nation's first responders need a true advocate and Mayor Giuliani has a proven record of supporting our efforts. Firefighters from across Florida are supporting Mayor Giuliani because they know that he truly respects the work we do to keep our communities safe," said Garofalo. Sheriff Wells was previously announced as the campaign's chair in Manatee County.
Florida First Responders for Rudy Leadership Team:
David Garofalo, Firefighters for Rudy National Co-Chair & Florida Co-Chair
Captain and Paramedic, Pasco County Fire Rescue; member, Lutz Volunteer Fire Association.
Don Eslinger, Law Enforcement for Rudy National Co-Chair & Florida Co-Chair Seminole County Sheriff
Vincent Champion, Florida Law Enforcement for Rudy Co-Chair Ormond Beach law enforcement officer
Jim Coats, Florida Law Enforcement for Rudy Co-Chair Pinellas County Sheriff
Charlie Wells, Florida Law Enforcement for Rudy Co-Chair
Former Manatee County Sheriff
Brian Muldowney Jr., Florida Firefighters for Rudy Co-Chair Hillsborough County Firefighter
  