
    Pool Reports by Gerren Keith Gaynor, TheGrio 



Sent:
Reports:




September 2, 202214:23

VP Supplemental Pool #1: Bilat with Vice President Osinbajo of Nigeria
Good afternoon!
I am your pooler for Vice President Harris' bilateral meeting with Nigerian Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Pool is tested and awaiting the VP’s arrival. Meeting is starting shortly.Details from VP's office below:
Vice President Harris will meet with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo of Nigeria to reaffirm the strong U.S.-Nigeria partnership to take on regional and global challenges. They will discuss the climate crisis, upcoming elections in Nigeria, and regional security issues in West Africa, among other issues.
United States Delegation - Vice President Kamala Harris- Lorraine Voles, Chief of Staff- Rebecca Lissner, Deputy National Security Advisor- Molly Phee, Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs, U.S. Department of State- Ambassador MaryBeth Leonard, U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria- Safia Mohamoud, Special Advisor for Africa, NSA- Dean Lieberman, Senior Advisor for National Security
Nigerian Delegation:- Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, Nigeria- Adeola Rahman Ipaye, Chief of Staff to the Vice President- H.E. Uzoma Emenike, Ambassador of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to the United States- Anthony Alonwu, Minister, Political Section- Damilola Ogunbiyi, CEO and Special Representative of the United Nations Secretary General for Sustainable Energy for All- Olanrewaju Shasore, Special Assistant, Planning- Olaolu Akande, Senior Special Assistant, Media- Balkisu Saidu, Senior Special Assistant, Legal & Research



September 2, 202214:29

VP Supplemental Pool #2
VP Harris walked in with VP Osinbajo at 2:25 p.m.
Vice President Harris emphasized the strong relationship between the U.S. and Nigeria, and the contributions Nigerians have made to the US.
"Nigeria is leading on some of the most important issues of our time, including the climate crisis"
She congratulated him for their climate transition plan.
VP Harris noted $7B has been allocated to African countries to tackle hunger.



September 2, 202214:31

VP Supplemental Pool #3
"The United States Tasha's committed to supporting free and fair elections" said VP Harris, ahead of the country's election.
"We look forward to strengthening our partnership."
VP said she was just with President Biden and sent his regards. And that she looked forward to hosting African leaders during December's summit at the White House.



September 2, 202214:32

VP Supplemental Pool #4
VP Osinbajo congratulated VP Harris and the US on the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act — particularly because of his climate and energy provisions — to which VP said, "thank you."



September 2, 202214:35

VP Supplemental Pool #5
Pool was ushered out at 2:33 pm. VP Harris did not answer to shouted questions. She and VP Osinbajo walked out of the VP ceremonial office immediately after remarks.



September 2, 202214:38

VP Supplemental Pool #6
Pool has been dismissed. That’s it for me! Have a good and restful holiday weekend.




  