
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:

Chai R. Feldblum, Commissioner, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Carmen Lomellin, Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador
Frederick "Rick" Barton, Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador
Jide Zeitlin, Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador
Charles Collyns, Assistant Secretary for International Finance, Department of the Treasury

President Obama also announced that he has appointed the seven board members of the Federal Service Impasses Panel (FSIP). Their names and bios are below.
President Obama said, "This group brings a dedication and expertise in their fields that will serve this administration and the American people well. As we work to advance equal rights, keep our nation safe and put our country back on a path to prosperity, I look forward to working with these fine individuals in the months and years ahead."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Chai R. Feldblum, Nominee for Commissioner, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Chai Feldblum is a Professor of Law at the Georgetown University Law Center where she has taught since 1991. She also founded the Law Center's Federal Legislation and Administrative Clinic, a program designed to train students to become legislative lawyers. Feldblum previously served as Legislative Counsel to the AIDS Project of the American Civil Liberties Union. In this role, she developed legislation, analyzed policy on various AIDS-related issues, and played a leading role in the drafting of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 and, later as a law professor, in the passage of the ADA Amendments Act of 2008. She has also worked on advancing lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender rights and has been a leading expert on the Employment Nondiscrimination Act. As Co-Director of Workplace Flexibility 2010, Feldblum has worked to advance flexible workplaces in a manner that works for employees and employers. Feldblum clerked for Judge Frank Coffin and for Supreme Court Justice Harry A. Blackmun. She received her J.D. from Harvard Law School and B.A. from Barnard College.
Carmen Lomellin, Nominee for Permanent Representative of the United States of America to the Organization of American States, with the rank of Ambassador 
Ms. Lomellin is currently the Director of Outreach for the Organization of America States (OAS). She previously served as the Executive Secretary of the Inter-American Commission of Women within the OAS, where she focused on hemispheric policies and issues affecting women, particularly in the areas of gender equality, economic empowerment and human rights. Prior to her time at the OAS, she served as White House Liaison and Senior Policy Advisor to the Director at the Office of Personnel Management in the Clinton Administration. Ms. Lomellin also worked in Presidential Personnel at the White House and as Adviser on Hispanic Affairs for the White House Office for Women's Initiatives and Outreach. Prior to her time in Washington, Ms. Lomellin held various positions in Chicago, including serving as Director of the Private Industry Council of Chicago for Mayor Richard M. Daley. She has worked for the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund as Director of Leadership Development, and for Chicago United, a civic think tank, as Director of Economic Development. She holds a Bachelor of Science in Business Management from St. Joseph's Calumet College and a Masters in Business Administration in International Business from De Paul University.
Frederick "Rick" Barton, Nominee for Representative of the United States of America on the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador
Mr. Barton currently serves as a Senior Adviser and Co-Director of the Post Conflict Reconstruction Project at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Mr. Barton was a member of the CSIS Commission on Smart Power and served on the World Economic Forum's Global Agenda Council on Humanitarian Assistance. He was also Co-Chair of a working group on Stabilization and Reconstruction at the United States Institute of Peace, Co-Chair of the Princeton Project on National Security's Working Group on Reconstruction and Development and an expert adviser to the Iraq Study Group and the Task Force on the United Nations. Mr. Barton has been a Visiting Lecturer at the Woodrow Wilson School at Princeton University, where he was the Frederick H. Schultz Professor of Economic Policy and Lecturer of Public and International Affairs. He also served as the United Nations Deputy High Commissioner for Refugees in Geneva from 1999-2001. Mr. Barton was the founding Director of the Office of Transition Initiatives at the United States Agency for International Development, serving from 1994-1999. Prior to his service at the State Department, Mr. Barton was President of Barton & Gingold, a strategy and public relations firm in Portland, Maine from 1983-1994. He served as New England Director of Public Affairs for the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services in Boston from 1978-1981. Previously he served as Chairman of the Maine Democratic Party and on the staff for U.S. Senator William Hathaway. A graduate of Harvard College (1971), Mr. Barton earned his Master's in Business Administration from Boston University (1982), with an emphasis on Public Management.
Jide Zeitlin, Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador
Mr. Zeitlin, a private investor, formerly served as an executive at Goldman, Sachs & Co., where he was elected a partner in 1996. He retired in 2005, having held a number of senior management positions in that firm's investment banking division as well as served in its executive office. Since 2005, Mr. Zeitlin has founded a company that builds and owns telecommunications infrastructure in India, and he has invested in private biotechnology companies globally. An active member of several educational and cultural organizations, Mr. Zeitlin serves as Chairman of the Board of Trustees at Amherst College and is a member of the boards of Teach For America, Milton Academy, Doris Duke Charitable Foundation, Montefiore Medical Center, Playwrights Horizons and Common Ground Community. He is also a member of the Harvard Business School Board of Dean's Advisors and is a director of two publicly-listed corporations: Affiliated Managers Group, Inc. and Coach, Inc. He earned an A.B. in Economics and English magna cum laude from Amherst College and an M.B.A. from Harvard University.
Charles Collyns, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for International Finance, Department of the Treasury
Dr. Charles Collyns is Deputy Director of the Research Department at the International Monetary Fund (IMF), where he leads the team responsible for preparing the "World Economic Outlook." Prior to joining the Research Department in 2006, he has held a range of positions at IMF including being responsible for IMF's work on Japan from 1997–2001, on the United States from 2001–03, and on Brazil from 2004–06. Dr. Collyns is author of a number of publications on international macro-economics. In addition to the World Economic Outlook report, he co?authored "Post?Bubble Blues—How Japan Responded to Asset Price Collapse," "Managing Financial Crises—Recent Experience and Lessons for Latin America," and "Stabilization and Reform in Latin America—A Macroeconomic Perspective on the Experience since the early 1990s." Dr. Collyns received a Doctorate in Economics from Oxford University after obtaining first class honors as an undergraduate at Cambridge University.
President Obama also made the following announcements today:
Mary Jacksteit, Chair, Federal Service Impasses Panel – Federal Labor Relations Authority
Mary Jacksteit has over 20 years of experience in mediation, facilitation and negotiation working for non-profit organizations, government agencies and community organizations. Jacksteit previously served on the Federal Service Impasses Panel for seven years during the Clinton Administration. She began her legal career as a labor attorney for the American Federation of Government Employees, AFL-CIO, where she later served as Deputy General Counsel. In the late 1980's she began practicing as a labor arbitrator in the public and private sectors, serving on panels of the American Arbitration Association, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, and U.S. Postal Service. For 10 years, she worked at Search for Common Ground - a conflict resolution organization. Since 2007 she has been associated with the Public Conversations Project in Watertown, Massachusetts and has maintained a private practice focused on community, public policy, organizational planning, and conflict management. Jacksteit has a law degree from Georgetown Law School, an M.S. from George Mason University's Institute for Conflict Analysis and Resolution, and a B.A. from the University of Pittsburgh.
Martin H. Malin, Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel – Federal Labor Relations Authority
Martin H. Malin is a Professor of Law and the Director of the Institute for Law and the Workplace at Chicago-Kent College of Law, Illinois Institute of Technology. He teaches courses in labor law, collective bargaining, arbitration, public sector labor law, employment law, contracts and jurisprudence. Malin has published five books, including Public Sector Employment: Cases and Materials (West 2004), the leading law school casebook on public sector labor law; and more than 60 articles on labor law and dispute resolution. An active arbitrator and mediator since 1984, Malin just completed a three-year term on the Board of Governors of the National Academy of Arbitrators and is a fellow of the College of Labor and Employment Lawyers. He also serves on the Executive Committee of The Labor Law Group and is a past chair of the Association of American Law Schools Section on Labor Relations and Employment Law. From 2004 - 2008, Malin served as Reporter for the Association of Labor Relations Agencies' Neutrality Project. He was the principal drafter of ALRA's Neutrality Report, a mini-treatise on labor board and mediation agency impartiality. During the mid 1980s, he served as a consultant to Illinois' public employment labor boards and drafted the regulations implementing Illinois' newly-enacted public sector labor relations acts. Malin joined the Chicago-Kent faculty in 1980, after teaching at Ohio State University and serving as Law Clerk to U.S. District Judge Robert DeMascio in Detroit. He holds a J.D. from George Washington University and a B.A. from Michigan State University.
Barbara B. Franklin, Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel – Federal Labor Relations Authority
Barbara B. Franklin is an arbitrator and mediator in Washington, D.C. She serves on arbitration rosters administered by the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, the American Arbitration Association and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. She is a mediator for the U.S. Court of Appeals and District Court for the District of Columbia. Since 1999, she has served as a Public Member of the D.C. Police and Firefighters Retirement Board, a position that is appointed by the Mayor of D.C. Prior to her retirement from the Federal Government in 1997, Ms. Franklin was Chief Counsel to Members Pamela Talkin and Donald S. Wasserman of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. From 1977 to 1989, she served as a staff attorney and then supervisory attorney for the National Labor Relations Board in the Office of General Counsel (Division of Advice). Franklin received her J.D. from The Catholic University of America's Columbus School of Law, where she was Associate Editor of the Law Review, and her B.A. from Northwestern University.
Marvin E. Johnson, Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel – Federal Labor Relations Authority
Marvin E. Johnson is a nationally recognized mediator and arbitrator of public and private disputes. Johnson serves on the rosters of the JAMS Resolution Experts, the International Institute for Conflict Prevention and Resolution, the American Arbitration Association, and Accormend Associates. He served 16 years as Assistant and Associate Professor of Labor Relations, Business Law and Conflict Management at Bowie State University where he founded the Center for Alternative Dispute Resolution. Johnson's previous appointment to the Federal Service Impasses Panel by a Democratic President and his appointment to the Foreign Service Grievance Board by a Republican Secretary of State are testaments to his impartiality and his dispute resolution expertise. In addition, he was appointed by the Governor of Maryland to serve on the Maryland State Labor Relations Board and by the Chief Judge of the Maryland Court of Appeals to serve on the Maryland Alternative Dispute Resolution Commission. Johnson is a member of the International Academy of Mediators, the ABA Section of Dispute Resolution, the Association for Conflict Resolution, the American College of Civil Trial Mediators, the Society of Labor and Employee Relations Professionals and Mediators Beyond Borders. He received his J.D. degree from Catholic University, his M.S. degree in Industrial Relations from the University of Wisconsin, and his B.B.A. degree from Kent State University.
Thomas E. Angelo, Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel – Federal Labor Relations Authority
Thomas Angelo began his career as an attorney with the Solicitor's Office at the U.S. Department of Labor, in Washington D.C. He joined the National Treasury Employees Union in 1972, serving as Associate General Counsel in Washington D.C. and San Francisco. In 1981, he was named Regional Attorney for the San Francisco Region of the Federal Labor Relations Authority. Angelo became a full time arbitrator in 1983 and is a member of the National Academy of Arbitrators. He serves as a panel arbitrator for many private and public sector parties. Angelo is a graduate of Willamette University and Willamette University College of Law.
Edward F. Hartfield, Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel – Federal Labor Relations Authority
Edward F. Hartfield is the Executive Director of the National Center for Dispute Settlement (NCDS). He has devoted his entire 36-year career to serving as an impartial party as mediator, arbitrator, facilitator, election administrator, trainer, neutral convener, and ombudsman. Hartfield has served as Commissioner with the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and State Mediator for the New Jersey Office of Dispute Settlement. He was previously appointed by President Clinton to the Federal Service Impasses Panel, a seven-person panel established to resolve disputes in the Federal Government. Hartfield has also served as the International President of the Society of Professionals in Dispute Resolution (SPIDR) and currently is Vice President of the Detroit Chapter of the Labor and Employment Research Association (LERA). Hartfield serves on the Michigan State Court Administrative Office Task Force on Mediation Confidentiality and previously served on the Michigan Supreme Court Task Force on Mediation. He received a Masters in International Relations from the University of Detroit and B.A. from Oberlin College.
Don Wasserman, Member, Federal Service Impasses Panel – Federal Labor Relations Authority
Don Wasserman has been a labor relations professional his entire career. Since 2001, he has been an arbitrator/mediator, specializing in all levels of the public sector. He is a Member of the D.C. Public Employee Relations Board (DC PERB) and the Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority Employee Relations Council (MWAA-ERC). Wasserman is also on the labor rosters of the American Arbitration Association, Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service and National Mediation Board. In December 1995, he was appointed by former President Clinton as a Member and then as Chairman of the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA), where he served until 2001. Wasserman began his career at the Communications Workers of America and then the International Association of Machinists. From 1967 until his appointment to FLRA, Wasserman held various top positions at the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees where he served as Director of the Department of Collective Bargaining and Assistant to the President. His major responsibilities included serving as chief negotiator in establishing initial collective bargaining agreements with several state governments and large local governments. He frequently testified before legislative bodies on key collective bargaining issues such as bargaining unit structure and impasse resolution procedures, as well as matters including government reinvention/redesign and civil service reform. Wasserman received an M.B.A from the University of Pennsylvania and a B.S. from Temple University.
  