
    Across America, local news outlets are reporting on the damaging impacts an Extreme Republican Shutdown would have on the lives of hardworking families.
Yesterday, Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack highlighted how an Extreme Republican Shutdown would jeopardize vital nutrition assistance for nearly 7 million women and children who count on the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC).
Read more below:
Boston Globe: A federal government shutdown would have wide-ranging impacts in New England[Tal Kopan, 9/26/23
A possible federal government shutdown is less than a week away and Congress remains hopelessly stalled, meaning come Sunday people around the country — including in New England — could be left grappling with what it means for them and their families. A monthlong shutdown that started in late 2018 cost the nation's economy an estimated $11 billion, an indication of the possible stakes if Congress does not pass a continuation of federal funding by Saturday night. A federal government shutdown would have wide-ranging impacts in New England. More than 60,000 federal employees work in the region, and they could be facing halted paychecks.
WNEM Michigan: Possible government shutdown threatens WIC, health services for most vulnerable[Staff, 9/25/23]
Kildee was joined by Ashley Strozier, the Family Mobility Coordinator at Communities First. She said WIC, a government program that helps low-income mothers, provided her with specialty formula for her premature baby. Doctors have now placed her daughter on three bottles of PediaSure per day to help her grow, which WIC also provides. The cost would amount to roughly $338 per month otherwise.
"I often wonder what would happen if those families that need the services like I do, to save my littlest one in my household, how would that shutdown affect them? When you pull away the support that WIC provides, you are putting our future in danger by making infants, toddlers, pregnant and lactating moms vulnerable to nutritious failures," Strozier said.
The CEO of Hamilton Community Health Network said 70 percent of funding is provided by the community health center fund, but that will expire this weekend if a budget isn't passed, which means 162,000 patients in Michigan would lose their health care."Without certainty about funding endeavors, health centers will struggle to meet the needs of the community and many of the most vulnerable will be impacted in a devastating way," Clarence Pierce said.
Colorado Newsline: Colorado families at risk of losing WIC benefits with government shutdown[Sara Wilson, 9/25/23]
About 78,000 women and children benefited from WIC in Colorado in 2022, according to the U.S. Department of Agriculture. The White House estimates that 87,752 people in the state — 19,916 women, 49,214 children and 18,622 infants — are at risk of losing benefits with a shutdown.
[…]
"WIC is a cost-effective investment in the next generation, delivering healthy food and nutrition support to vulnerable moms and young children," Anya Rose, the public policy manager at Hunger Free Colorado, said in a statement. Funding cuts, she said, "would undermine the purpose of the program by cutting benefits, creating waitlists, and reducing the increased fruit and vegetable benefits, by nearly $15 million in Colorado."
Bangor Daily News: Benefits for Maine families under threat due to impending government shutdown[Amanda Marino, 9/25/23]
We have seen firsthand how the uncertainty of this funding affects the stress levels and well-being of WIC staff. WIC staff across the state are some of the kindest, most passionate and dedicated public servants you'll meet. We worry how insufficient funding will have additional consequences in Maine such as reducing outreach efforts, reducing clinic staff, shortening clinic hours or even turning away eligible applicants.
WIC significantly alleviates food and nutrition insecurity, which in turn reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease of all participants, supports brain development and results in higher immunization rates in young children. We must invest in the next generation to ensure a healthy future for Maine.
Nebraska Examiner: Food benefits for low income families at risk in a government shutdown, White House says[Ariana Figueroa, 9/25/23]
U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said during a Monday White House briefing that WIC recipients could feel the impact of the shutdown within days.
"Millions of those moms, (babies) and young children would see a lack of nutrition assistance," he said.Vilsack, Iowa's former governor, said some states have leftover WIC benefits and "could extend (WIC) for a week or so.""The vast majority of WIC participants would see an immediate reduction and elimination of those benefits, which means the nutrition assistance that's provided would not be available," he said.
For example, in Nebraska, about 37,000 WIC recipients stand to lose their benefits. In Alabama, that number is about 112,000, and in Florida, it's more than 421,000. In Michigan, more than 207,000 recipients could lose their WIC benefits and in North Carolina, it's more than 268,000 WIC recipients.
The Providence Journal: A government shutdown is looming. Here's how it could affect Rhode Island.[Katherine Gregg, 9/26/23]
Magaziner: "A government shutdown would have devastating consequences for Rhode Islanders. Rhode Islanders working for the federal government, including active-duty military service members, air traffic controllers and TSA officers would be forced to work without pay.
KOB-TV Albuquerque: New Mexico braces for government shutdown[Spencer Schacht, 9/26/23]
"The impacts are really real not being able to pay your mortgage payment not being able to buy groceries you might have to ask for help from somebody to get you through the month. We know many New Mexicans are living paycheck to paycheck," Stansbury added.
KOB 4 spoke to some federal workers in the metro about the potential shutdown. None wanted to go on camera – but many said they're just trying to get work done this week. They're looking forward to any back pay they would get once a shutdown ends.
WMAQ Chicago: Illinois lawmakers warn of impacts government shutdown could have for residents[Staff, 9/25/23]
As for the impact a shutdown could have on Americans, numbers published by the White House tell a startling tale. Food inspections would be delayed, and the Small Business Administration would be unable to issue new loans.
Other agencies could be impacted as well, as non-essential workers would immediately be furloughed in the event of a shutdown. According to estimates, there could be as many as four million non-essential federal employees that would be put out of work by a shutdown, and that could have dire consequences for those seeking services related to Social Security and more.
"You're going to get your Social Security check, but if you have any questions, nobody's going to answer the call," Quigley said. "Same is true with veterans' benefits. You can get a passport renewed, but if there's an issue you need to talk about, nobody's there."
WTOP Maryland: What benefits may be lost with a government shutdown?[Kyle Cooper, 9/26/23]
Cordes said, generally, people who work in health safety and security will keep doing their jobs, but there are some exceptions in a shutdown.
"It is true that, for example, some food inspection may not happen on schedule," Cordes said.The Head Start program may also take a hit, as well as any agencies that get federal grant money to operate.
WGN Chicago: As federal government shutdown looms, Illinois braces for impact[Tahman Bradley, 9/25/23]
In a shutdown, hundreds of thousands of federal employees, including 43,000 in Illinois, would be furloughed or forced to work without pay. This includes active-duty military and federal law enforcement.
WCTV Tallahassee: Florida leaders preparing for government shutdown[Cody Butler, 9/25/23]
Guthrie said the state has $500 to $600 million set aside to match FEMA grants to help recover from disasters, mostly hurricanes. He said Florida can't move forward if Congress doesn't act soon.
"Every open disasters in the state of Florida, which I believe right now is 28 open disasters, will be impacted by the disaster relief fund not being funded," Guthrie said.
WRGB Albany: What a government shutdown could mean for New Yorkers[Jacquie Slater, 9/25/23]
There are 60,727 federal employees in New York, according to the United States Office of Personnel. Most of them will have paychecks delayed if lawmakers can't reach an agreement by the October 1, 2023 deadline.
[…]
But, federal grants could be delayed, impacting charities, police departments and other local agencies.In the last shutdown TSA workers who weren't getting paid called out sick, resulting in travel delays.
WMUR New Hampshire: Some New Hampshire businesses could be affected by government shutdown[Kelly O'Brien, 9/25/23]
Appledore Marine Engineering in Portsmouth relies on federal contracts for work. Company officials said they believe their work is essential, but they won't know if they can continue their underwater structural engineering services until after a shutdown is announced.
Kirk Riden, co-owner of Appledore Marine Engineering, said the uncertainty is a big problem."That is a significant problem for a small business that employs specialist technician divers to support the (Department of Defense) and the (Department of Homeland Security) around the world," he said.
KOCO Oklahoma City: As government shutdown looms, many Oklahomans would feel its impacts[Andy Weber, 9/25/23]
The shutdown's impact could be far-reaching in Oklahoma, including for workers in the Federal Aviation Administration, the National Weather Service or those working at Tinker Air Force Base.
"Not being able to pay rent and buy food and stuff," said a federal worker during 2019's shutdown. "It's just been really hard.""We're late on rent, and they start eviction proceedings on the 15th of the month," said another federal worker in 2019.
Louisville Courier Journal: White House: Government shutdown could risk food aid for 120K moms, children in Kentucky[Joe Sonka, 9/25/23]
In Kentucky, a potential shutdown would jeopardize the WIC aid of 24,169 women, 68,821 children and 26,894 infants, according to the White House.
[…]
An additional statement Monday from White House spokesman Ian Sams called attention to the plans of House Oversight Committee Chairman James Comer of Kentucky and Judiciary Committee Chairman Jim Jordan of Ohio to hold an impeachment hearing Thursday targeting President Joe Biden, calling that a distraction from the pending shutdown and its consequences."While Comer and Jordan are focused on baseless political stunts to get themselves attention on Fox News, 300,000 people in Kentucky and Ohio — including vulnerable infants — could lose access to the food assistance they need because of extreme House Republicans' shutdown plan," Sams said.
"Instead of working to avoid the pain they and their extreme House Republican colleagues could inflict on Kentuckians and Ohioans with their shutdown plan, Comer and Jordan are posing for the cameras to attack President Biden with debunked smears — it's D.C. politics at its worst."
Portland Press Herald: Shutdown would be disastrous for Maine, top lawmakers warn[Randy Billings, 9/26/23]
More than 11,000 federal workers in Maine would be furloughed or expected to work without pay. Food assistance for roughly 18,000 women and children would be jeopardized. And Acadia National Park could close its gates at the height of foliage season, sending economic ripple effects through area businesses.
[…]
The union representing federal workers is urging Congress to come to an agreement and points to the nationwide impacts of the 35-day shutdown in 2018-2019 – the longest federal shutdown in U.S. history. They said 420,000 worked without pay, including those working in transportation security, prisons, veterans affairs and border patrol officers, while 350,000 workers were furloughed.
The union said the national parks lost $400,000 a day in entrance fee revenue, while the National Transportation Safety Board halted investigations into accidents and the Consumer Product Safety Commission halted recalls of potentially dangerous products.
KGO-TV San Francisco: How government shutdown could impact SF Fleet Week, Bay Area national parks[Suzanne Phan, 9/26/23]
"I wish they could all work together. That's why our elected officials are there to represent us. We should not have a breakdown in our system," said Dena Villarreal.
Some say the federal government coming to a standstill would hurt San Francisco and its bottom line.
"It's a shame if they have to shut down because of the tourist industry, SF, the local economy, they all count on tourist dollars. If this is all shut down, people won't come," said Jesse Villarreal.
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack on Gray TV – 9/25
VILSACK: "There's a tremendous return on investment for the small amount of discretionary budget that goes into the Department of Agriculture. It's for rural America, a place that has 15% of America's population, 70% of America's landmass, the place where our food is produced, the place where our water comes from."
  