
    Momentum Builds on Faith Community Endorsements and Biden Defections to Team Ryan
Youngstown, OH – Ohio Congressman Tim Ryan ended a three-day swing as the only presidential candidate in South Carolina with the announcement of five more endorsements from prominent community leaders in the Palmetto State.  The additional support follows major endorsements from the faith community and the recent defection of five senior South Carolina Biden campaign advisors to Team Ryan.
BENNIE F. BROWN, JR.is a small business owner and graduate of Paine College who serves as the CEO of Brown Rental Properties & Repair and Upstate Family Funeral services.  He resides in Taylors, South Carolina with his wife, Mirdis.
"Democrats need a nominee who is not hostile to the needs of small business owners and their importance to both the local and national economies –Tim Ryan gets it, and I am proud to support him for president," proclaimed Mr. Brown.
CARRIE COUNTONis a two-time candidate for South Carolina Statehouse District 19, and a beloved activist and leader among Democrats in the state's most populous county of Greenville.
According to Carrie, "I support Tim Ryan because of his passion for working class people and his clear-cut ideas that will help rebuild our economy both nationally and here in South Carolina.  We deserve a leader who will put hardworking women and men first, instead of corporations, and I am especially enthusiastic about Tim Ryan's plans for wellness and mindfulness in caring for our teachers, our kids, and our veterans.  I am proud to give him a full endorsement as our next president."
JOHN T. "JT" DAVISis a manufacturing engineer, global business executive, and US Army Veteran who previously ran for Congress in South Carolina's 4th District.
JT stated "The best choice for our next president is Tim Ryan.  Representative Ryan understands more than any candidate from either party the synergies in education, workforce, technology, healthcare, energy, and manufacturing policy necessary for the US to compete and win in the 21st century global economy.  Manufacturing is especially important in South Carolina with our economic success keystones in Automotive and Aerospace, and Tim will take action on gun violence and opioid challenges.  Tim's all-American Midwest perspective is the Democratic Party's best chance to win in 2020.  I encourage everyone - Democrat, Republican, or Independent - to learn more about this next generation leader."
RONALD FISHER is a retired educator from Mauldin High School and a prominent member of the Omega Psi Phi fraternity.  He is a member of the historic John Wesley United Methodist Church in downtown Greenville, SouthCarolina, and the former chair of the HBCU Football Classic.
"Tim Ryan is the only candidate out there who is embracing the truth that we need more social-emotional learning in our schools.  His education plan will help enrich the lives of the tomorrow's young people in this country, and I couldn't be prouder to support his candidacy for president" stated Mr. Fisher.
WAYNE GRIFFIN is a Councilman for the City of Greer in the counties of Greenville and Spartanburg, South Carolina.
The Councilman noted that "Tim Ryan took the time to come speak to a large audience of senior citizens in Greer, and it was clear from that engaging dialogue that he has what it takes to lead this nation out of the terrible quagmire we currently find ourselves in.  I support him wholeheartedly!"
Congressman Ryan was thrilled about the additional support, saying "What a tremendous honor to be endorsed by Carrie Counton and JT Davis.  I have knocked on doors with Carrie and know firsthand that she is a rising star among South Carolina Democrats.  I also deeply respect the business savvy and constructive manufacturing insights of JT Davis.  Mr. Brown, Mr. Fisher, and Councilman Griffin are pillars of the Upstate community whose support means so much.  Thank you all – together, we are winning over South Carolina voters the old-fashioned way: through grassroots grit and hustle."
The Ryan campaign recently announced the endorsements of two respected leaders in the African American faith community and five former senior advisors to the Biden campaign in South Carolina.
Find out more about Tim at TimRyanForAmerica.com.
  