
    As part of the campaign's growing paid media program, Biden for President is launching a pair of 0:60 television spots today that underscore how American manufacturing and union jobs will be central to America's economic recovery. The new ads will air on select television markets in key battleground states and on digital platforms, including Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube.
In Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Wisconsin, and Pennsylvania, "Engine" highlights a key plan of Joe Biden's economic recovery plan for working families to ensure our country builds back better, making significant investments in American manufacturing — an engine of new prosperity. The ad pulls from Biden's July speech in Dunmore, Pennsylvania where he announced the first plank of his build back better agenda to ensure the future is "Made in America" by all of America's workers.
In Michigan, North Carolina, Ohio, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, and Minnesota, the campaign will showcase a testimonial from a Trump-Biden voter. "Totally Negligent" features Rick, a voter from Lawrence County, Pennsylvania, who says he made a mistake voting for Donald Trump in 2016 and won't make the same mistake in 2020. He calls Trump "totally negligent" for failing to control the virus and help the economy, and says that Biden is the leader who has a plan to turn it around.
The ads are part of Biden for President's ongoing paid media program, which includes $65 million in spend this week across broadcast and digital. The campaign's ads remain active in a total of ten states, including Arizona, Florida, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Michigan, Nevada, Ohio, Nebraska, and Minnesota.
Yesterday, Biden for President released four new ads also airing in key states. "Little Brother" and "Anthony" feature testimonials from families who support Biden for his commitment to health care and protecting Americans with pre-existing conditions, and "Unforgivable" and"Do Your Job" feature direct messages from Biden criticizing the Trump Administration's failures.
  