
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest television ad, entitled "Education." The ad highlights Barack Obama's lack of accomplishment on education save for voting to teach "comprehensive sex education" to kindergartners. The ad will air in key states.
VIEW THE AD HERE: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uVLQhRiEXZs
Script For "Education" (TV :30)
ANNCR: Education Week says Obama "hasn't made a significant mark on education".
That he's "elusive" on accountability.
A "staunch defender of the existing public school monopoly".
Obama's one accomplishment?
Legislation to teach "comprehensive sex education" to kindergartners.
Learning about sex before learning to read?
Barack Obama.
Wrong on education. Wrong for your family.
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approved this message.
AD FACTS: Script For "Education" (TV :30)
ANNCR: Education Week says Obama "hasn't made a significant mark on education".

Education Week: "In His Eight Years In The State Senate And Two Years In The U.S. Senate, Mr. Obama Hasn't Made A Significant Mark On Education Policy." ("Obama's Annenberg Stint Informs White House Bid," Education Week, 3/7/07)

ANNCR: That he's "elusive" on accountability.

The Washington Post: Barack Obama "Elusive" On School Accountability. "Mr. Obama, as the New York Times' David Brooks recently observed, has promised dozens of crowd-pleasing programs but has been elusive on such thorny issues as teacher tenure and school accountability." (Editorial, "Focus On School Reform," The Washington Post, 7/7/08)

ANNCR: A "staunch defender of the existing public school monopoly".

Chicago Tribune's Steve Chapman: "Obama Is The Staunch Defender Of The Existing Public School Monopoly." "On the subject of elementary and secondary education, the two seem to have gotten their roles completely mixed up. Obama is the staunch defender of the existing public school monopoly, and he's allergic to anything that subverts it. John McCain, on the other hand, went before the NAACP last week to argue for something new and daring." (Steve Chapman, Op-Ed, "Change: A Matter Of Convenience," Chicago Tribune, 7/20/08)

ANNCR: Obama's one accomplishment? Legislation to teach "comprehensive sex education" to kindergartners. Learning about sex before learning to read? Barack Obama. Wrong on education. Wrong for your family.
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approved this message.

"Before His Election To The U.S. Senate, Obama Was A State Senator And Chairman Of A Committee That Approved Legislation That Would Have Altered Illinois' Sex Education Standards To Include Instruction In Any Grade From Kindergarten Through 12th, Rather Than Grades 6-12." (Jim Davenport, "Romney Tries To Build SC Support With Appeal To Conservatives," The Associated Press, 7/19/07)


In Committee, Barack Obama Voted In Favor Of Legislation (S.B. 99) That Would Amend Requirements For Sex Education Classes. "Amends the School Code and the Critical Health Problems and Comprehensive Health Education Act. Changes and adds criteria that sex education classes and comprehensive health education programs must satisfy." (S.B. 99: Illinois Senate Health And Human Services Committee, Passed, 7-4-0, 3/6/03, Obama Voted Yea)


The Full Text Of S.B. 99 Included Changes That Would Offer Sex Education To Children Beginning In Kindergarten. "Each class or course in comprehensive sex education offered in any of grades K through 12 shall include instruction on the prevention of sexually transmitted infections, including the prevention, transmission and spread of HIV." (S.B. 99: Illinois Senate Health And Human Services Committee, Passed, 7-4-0, 3/6/03, Obama Voted Yea)



    "ABC News' Teddy Davis And Lindsey Ellerson Report: Sen. Barack Obama, D-Ill., Told Planned Parenthood ... That Sex Education For Kindergarteners, As Long As It Is 'Age-Appropriate,' Is 'The Right Thing To Do.'" ("Sex Ed for Kindergarteners 'Right Thing to Do,' Says Obama," ABC News' "Political Radar" Blog, blogs.abcnews.com, Accessed 7/19/07)
  



    The Obama Campaign Tells First Read: "You Can Teach A Kid About What's Appropriate And Not Appropriate To Protect Them From Predators Out There." ("Obama And Sex Ed For Kids," NBC News' "First Read," firstread.msnbc.msn.com, Accessed 7/19/07)
  



    The Obama Campaign Issues Document Citing Sex-Education Curriculum For Kindergarteners From The SIECUS And Oregon Department Of Education. "In addition, he issued a document showing that the Oregon Department of Education has guidelines for sex education for children in grades K-3 (which includes understanding the difference between a good touch and a bad touch), and that the Sexuality Information And Education Council of the United States [SIECUS] has curriculum for those in kindergarten." ("Obama And Sex Ed For Kids," NBC News' "First Read," firstread.msnbc.msn.com, Accessed 7/19/07)
  



    Click Here To Read The SEICUS Guidelines For Children Between The Ages Of 5 And 8: http://www.siecus.org/_data/global/images/guidelines.pdf
  


The Full Text Of S.B. 99 Included Changes That Would Offer Sex Education To Children Beginning In Kindergarten. "Each class or course in comprehensive sex education offered in any of grades K through 12 shall include instruction on the prevention of sexually transmitted infections, including the prevention, transmission and spread of HIV." (S.B. 99: Illinois Senate Health And Human Services Committee, Passed, 7-4-0, 3/6/03, Obama Voted Yea)

  