
    President George W. Bush today announced his intention to nominate four individuals and designate three individuals to serve in his Administration.
The President intends to nominate Javaid Anwar, of Nevada, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation (Public), for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 12/10/07 and an additional six-year term expiring 12/10/13.
The President intends to nominate Madonna Cynthia Douglass, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Occupational Safety and Health Review Commission, for the remainder of a six-year term expiring 04/27/13. Ms. Douglass currently serves as Chief Judge of the Administrative Review Board at the Department of Labor. Prior to this, she served as Executive Director of the Steel Shipping Container Institute. Earlier in her career, she served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Labor for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Ms. Douglass received her bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas and her JD from Washington University.
The President intends to designate Christopher A. Padilla, of the District of Columbia, to be Acting Under Secretary for International Trade at the Department of Commerce.
The President intends to nominate Christina H. Pearson, of Maryland, to be Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services (Public Affairs) and upon nomination designate Acting. Ms. Pearson currently serves as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs (Media) at the Department of Health and Human Services. Prior to this, she served as Director of Media Affairs in the Office of Public Affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services. Earlier in her career, she served as Senior Associate Director of Media Relations at the American Hospital Association. Ms. Pearson received her bachelor's degree from Hamilton College.
The President intends to designate John C. Rood, of Arizona, to be Acting Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security at the Department of State.
The President intends to nominate Douglas W. Webster, of Virginia, to be Chief Financial Officer at the Department of Labor. Dr. Webster currently serves as Senior Manager at Grant Thorton, LLP. Prior to this, he served as Principal Finance Advisor to the Ministry of Transportation under the Coalition Provisional Authority. Earlier in his career, he served as President of SCIRE, Inc. Dr. Webster received his bachelor's degree from the University of California, Los Angeles, his master's degree from the University of Southern California, and his DBA from the United States International University.
  