
    Yesterday, three major U.S. companies—Ford, General Motors, and Walmart—made announcements demonstrating how investments to tackle the climate crisis will also create jobs and support domestic industries.
General Motors issued a statement urging Congress to move forward with both pieces of legislation, noting how "the Build Back Better plan puts the country on the path toward addressing important issues such as strengthening the economy, advancing American innovation, and sustainability." The statement highlights how Build Back Better investments in electric vehicle tax credits, charging station infrastructure, and domestic supply chains will "support an all-electric future that strengthens American jobs and enhances the well-being of American consumers." GM, with its union workforce, has committed to leading on electrification and recognizes that President Biden's Build Back Better Agenda will support this "pro-growth, pro-jobs, and pro-sustainability future."
Walmart also issued a statement supporting both bills—calling for "bold domestic climate policy action" and expressing support for Build Back Better investments to reduce emissions while promoting economic growth. Walmart's Chief Sustainability Officer, Kathleen McLaughlin, wrote: "Walmart is encouraged by the many climate-related policy proposals being debated by Congress, including proposals made through budget reconciliation and the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, as well as additional ideas being surfaced in policy circles. We urge our national leaders to find ways to enact much-needed legislation to enable the U.S. to move forward on climate action now to avoid the worst effects of climate change in the future."
The endorsements follow Ford's major announcement of new electric vehicle and battery manufacturing mega-sites in Tennessee and Kentucky that will create 11,000 new jobs–a win for American workers, and another example of how President Biden's economic plan is working. With the robust and durable COVID-19 recovery, businesses are continuing to invest in domestic manufacturing—and the investments in the Build Back Better Agenda and Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal would accelerate this economic and job growth, bolster domestic supply chains, and help address climate change. And, UAW International President Ray Curry said the United Autoworkers look forward to taking a lead in manufacturing EVs and helping develop the new workforce.
Earlier this week, more than 1,000 business leaders signed onto letters organized by the American Sustainable Business Council (ASBC), E2 (Environmental Entrepreneurs), and Clean Energy for America (CE4A), voicing support for President Biden's Build Back Better Agenda and Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal.
  