
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, U.S. Senator John McCain issued the following statement on the President's announcement concerning our troops in Iraq:
"Today's announcement of additional withdrawals of American forces in Iraq demonstrates what success in our efforts there can look like. American troops are returning home in success and with honor because of the improvements in security that followed implementation of the surge strategy. Today's announcement makes clear that the planned withdrawal of up to 8,000 troops is based, as it should be, on conditions on the ground and the advice of our military commanders in the field.
"Senator Obama is utterly confused by the progress in the war in Iraq. He has minimized the success of the surge in stabilizing Iraq, but today said the reductions in violence exceeded expectations. The surge has greatly brought down violence, but Senator Obama would still oppose it, even in retrospect.
"Today's announcement stands in clear contrast to the reckless approach long advocated by Senator Obama. His proposal - to withdraw forces based on a political timetable, no matter the consequences for Iraq or American national security -- is profoundly irresponsible. Senator Obama's comments today demonstrate again his commitment to retreating from Iraq no matter what the cost. His focus is on withdrawal -- not on victory. I have always maintained that American forces can only be responsibly withdrawn when it is clear that doing so will not jeopardize the tremendous gains for which our troops have fought. Withdrawing U.S. troops as Iraqi forces are able to assume greater responsibility, and as our enemies in Iraq are being increasingly weakened, is the right way to bring this war to a successful conclusion.
"It is clear that we need additional forces in Afghanistan, and I support the new deployments. Senator Obama believes we must lose in Iraq to win in Afghanistan. I want to win in Iraq and in Afghanistan. As we succeed in Iraq, we must also succeed in Afghanistan. I continue to have full confidence in Generals Petraeus and Odierno as they prepare to assume their new responsibilities, and I look forward to continuing to rely on their advice and counsel as we seek to prevail in both Iraq and Afghanistan."
  