
    Eduardo Aguirre, Jr., of Texas, to be First Vice President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States for a term expiring January 20, 2005, vice Jackie M. Clegg, term expired.
George L. Argyros, Sr., of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Spain, and to serve concurrently and without additional compensation as Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to Andorra.
M. Christina Armijo, of New Mexico, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Mexico, vice a new position created by Public Law 106-553, approved December 21, 2000.
Brigadier General Edwin J. Arnold, Jr., United States Army, to be a Member and President of the Mississippi River Commission, under the provisions of Section 2 of an Act of Congress, approved June 1879 (21 Stat. 37)(33 USC 642).
Jo Anne Barnhart, of Delaware, to be Commissioner of Social Security for the term expiring January 19, 2007, vice Kenneth S. Apfel, term expired.
John D. Bates, of Maryland, to be United States District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Stanley S. Harris, retired.
Charlotte L. Beers, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy, vice Evelyn Simonowitz Lieberman.
Susan Schmidt Bies, of Tennessee, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for a term of fourteen years from February 1, 1998, vice Susan Meredith Phillips, resigned.
Marion Blakey, of Mississippi, to be a Member of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term expiring December 31, 2005, vice John Arthur Hammerschmidt, term expired.
Marion Blakey, of Mississippi, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of two years, vice James E. Hall, term expired.
J. Richard Blankenship, of Florida, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Commonwealth of The Bahamas.
Lawrence J. Block, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Eric G. Bruggink, term expired.
Robert C. Bonner, of California, to be Commissioner of Customs, vice Raymond W. Kelly, resigned.
Karon O. Bowdre, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Alabama, vice Sam C. Pointer, Jr., retired.
Terrence W. Boyle, of North Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice J. Dickson Phillips, Jr., retired.
Linton F. Brooks, of Virginia, to be Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation, National Nuclear Security Administration. (New Position)
Susan W. Brooks, of Indiana, to be United States Attorney for the Southern District of Indiana for the term of four years, vice Judith Ann Stewart, resigned.
John L. Brownlee, of Virginia, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Virginia for the term of four years, vice Robert P. Crouch, Jr., resigned.
David L. Bunning, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky, vice William O. Bertelsman, retired.
Timothy Mark Burgess, of Alaska, to be United States Attorney for the District of Alaska for the term of four years, vice Robert Charles Bundy, resigned.
Scott M. Burns, of Utah, to be Deputy Director for State and Local Affairs, Office of National Drug Control Policy. (New Position)
Jay S. Bybee, of Nevada, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Randolph D. Moss, resigned.
Karen K. Caldwell, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky, vice Henry R. Wilhoit, Jr., retired.
Laurie Smith Camp, of Nebraska, to be United States District Judge for the District of Nebraska, vice William G. Cambridge, retired.
Leura Garrett Canary, of Alabama, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of Alabama for the term of four years, vice Charles Redding Pitt, resigned.
Brian E. Carlson, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Latvia.
Paul G. Cassell, of Utah, to be United States District Judge for the District of Utah, vice David Sam, retired.
Paul K. Charlton, of Arizona, to be United States Attorney for the District of Arizona for the term of four years, vice Jose de Jesus Rivera, resigned.
Margaret M. Chiara, of Michigan, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Michigan for the term of four years, vice Michael Hayes Dettmer, resigned.
Joseph M. Clapp, of North Carolina, to be Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. (New Position)
Edith Brown Clement, of Louisiana, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice John M. Duhe, Jr., retired.
Richard R. Clifton, of Hawaii, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice Cynthia Holcomb Hall, retired.
Bruce Cole, of Indiana, to be Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Humanities for a term of four years, vice William R. Ferris, term expiring.
Colm F. Connolly, of Delaware, to be United States Attorney for the District of Delaware for the term of four years, vice Carl Schnee, resigned.
Robert J. Conrad, Jr., of North Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina for the term of four years, vice Mark Timothy Calloway, resigned.
Deborah L. Cook, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice Alan E. Norris, retired.
Fred L. Dailey, of Ohio, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, vice Gordon Clyde Southern.
Grace Trujillo Daniel, of California, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, vice Clyde Arlie Wheeler, Jr.
Deborah J. Daniels, of Indiana, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Laurie O. Robinson, resigned.
John J. Danilovich, of California, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Costa Rica.
Joseph M. DeThomas, of Pennsylvania, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Estonia.
Nils J. Diaz, of Florida, to be a Member of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for the term of five years expiring June 30, 2006. (Reappointment)
Kenneth M. Donohue, Sr., of Virginia, to be Inspector General, Department of Housing and Urban Development, vice Susan Gaffney, resigned.
Thomas C. Dorr, of Iowa, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Rural Development, vice Jill L. Long, resigned.
Thomas C. Dorr, of Iowa, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Jill L. Long, resigned.
Claire V. Eagan, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Oklahoma, vice Thomas Rutherford Brett, retired.
Kurt D. Engelhardt, of Louisiana, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Louisiana, vice Morey L. Sear, retired.
Ellen G. Engleman, of Indiana, to be Administrator of the Research and Special Programs Administration, Department of Transportation, vice Kelley S. Coyner, resigned.
Miguel A. Estrada, of Virginia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice Patricia M. Wald, retired.
J. Robert Flores, of Virginia, to be Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, vice Sheldon C. Bilchik.
Sharee M. Freeman, of Virginia, to be Director, Community Relations Service, for a term of four years, vice Rose Ochi, term expired.
Stephen P. Friot, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, vice Wayne E. Alley, retired.
Thomas C. Gean, of Arkansas, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas for the term of four years, vice Paul Kinloch Holmes, III, resigned.
James Gilleran, of California, to be Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision for the remainder of the term expiring October 23, 2002, vice Ellen Seidman, resigned.
John W. Gillis, of California, to be Director of the Office for Victims of Crime, vice Kathryn M. Turman, resigned.
Callie V. Granade, of Alabama, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Alabama, vice Alex T. Howard, Jr., retired.
Todd Peterson Graves, of Missouri, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Missouri for the term of four years, vice Stephen Lawrence Hill, Jr., resigned.
James Ming Greenlee, of Mississippi, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Mississippi for the term of four years, vice Calvin D. Buchanan, resigned.
James E. Gritzner, of Iowa, to be United States District Judge for the Southern District of Iowa, vice Charles R. Wolle, retiring.
Raymond W. Gruender, of Missouri, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri for the term of four years, vice Audrey G. Fleissig, resigned.
Janet Hale, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of Health and Human Services, vice John Joseph Callahan, resigned.
Terrell Lee Harris, of Tennessee, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Tennessee for the term of four years, vice Veronica Freeman Coleman, resigned.
Patricia de Stacy Harrison, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Educational and Cultural Affairs), vice William B. Bader.
Harris L. Hartz, of New Mexico, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Bobby Ray Baldock, retired.
Joe L. Heaton, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Western District of Oklahoma, vice Ralph G. Thompson, retired.
Michael G. Heavican, of Nebraska, to be United States Attorney for the District of Nebraska for the term of four years, vice Thomas Justin Monaghan, resigned.
Thomas B. Heffelfinger, of Minnesota, to be United States Attorney for the District of Minnesota for the term of four years, vice Byron Todd Jones, resigned.
Hans H. Hertell, of Puerto Rico, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Dominican Republic.
Larry R. Hicks, of Nevada, to be United States District Judge for the District of Nevada, vice Johnnie B. Rawlinson, elevated.
Kent R. Hill, of Massachusetts, to be an Assistant Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, vice Donald Lee Pressley, resigned.
Marianne Lamont Horinko, of Virginia, to be Assistant Administrator, Office of Solid Waste, Environmental Protection Agency, vice Timothy Fields, Jr., resigned.
Marian Blank Horn, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years. (Reappointment)
Jeffrey R. Howard, of New Hampshire, to be United States Circuit Judge for the First Circuit, vice Norman H. Stahl, retired.
John L. Howard, of Illinois, to be Chairman of the Special Panel on Appeals for a term of six years, vice Barbara Jean Mahone, term expired.
Roscoe Conklin Howard, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be United States Attorney for the District of Columbia for the term of four years, vice Wilma A. Lewis, resigned.
David Claudio Iglesias, of New Mexico, to be United States Attorney for the District of New Mexico for the term of four years, vice Norman C. Bay.
Jeffrey D. Jarrett, of Pennsylvania, to be Director of the Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, vice Kathleen M. Karpan.
P. H. Johnson, of Mississippi, to be Federal Cochairperson, Delta Regional Authority. (New Position)
William P. Johnson, of New Mexico, to be United States District Judge for the District of New Mexico, vice John E. Conway, retired.
Brian Jones, of California, to be General Counsel, Department of Education, vice Judith A. Winston, resigned.
Frederico Juarbe, Jr., of Virginia, to be Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training, vice Espiridion A. Borrego.
Patrick Francis Kennedy, of Illinois, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations for U.N. Management and Reform, with the rank of Ambassador, vice Donald Stuart Hays.
Carolyn B. Kuhl, of California, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit, vice James R. Browning, retired.
Charles W. Larson, Sr., of Iowa, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Iowa for the term of four years, vice Stephen John Rapp, resigned.
Hilda Gay Legg, of Kentucky, to be Administrator, Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture, vice Christopher A. McLean, resigned.
Leslie Lenkowsky, of Indiana, to be Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for National and Community Service, vice Harris Wofford, resigned.
Charles F. Lettow, of Virginia, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice John Paul Wiese, term expiring.
Michael E. Malinowski, of the District of Columbia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Kingdom of Nepal.
Harry Sandlin Mattice, Jr., of Tennessee, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Tennessee for the term of four years, vice Carl Kimmel Kirkpatrick, resigned.
Robert Garner McCampbell, of Oklahoma, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Oklahoma for the term of four years, vice Daniel G. Webber, Jr., resigned.
Michael W. McConnell, of Utah, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Stephen H. Anderson, retired.
Jackson McDonald, of Florida, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of The Gambia.
Bonnie McElveen-Hunter, of North Carolina, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Finland.
Paul J. McNulty, of Virginia, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia for the term of four years, vice Helen Frances Fahey, resigned.
Matthew Hansen Mead, of Wyoming, to be United States Attorney for the District of Wyoming for the term of four years, vice David D. Freudenthal, resigned.
Patrick Leo Meehan, of Pennsylvania, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for the term of four years, vice Michael Rankin Stiles, resigned.
Michael J. Melloy, of Iowa, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, vice George G. Fagg, retired.
William Walter Mercer, of Montana, to be United States Attorney for the District of Montana for the term of four years, vice Sherry Scheel Matteucci, resigned.
Michael P. Mills, of Mississippi, to be United States District Judge for the Northern District of Mississippi, vice Neal B. Biggers, retired.
Michael W. Mosman, of Oregon, to be United States Attorney for the District of Oregon for the term of four years, vice Kristine Olson Rogers, resigned.
Thomas E. Moss, of Idaho, to be United States Attorney for the District of Idaho for the term of four years, vice Betty Hansen Richardson, resigned.
Elsa A. Murano, of Texas, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Food Safety, vice Catherine E. Woteki, resigned.
Richard R. Nedelkoff, of Texas, to be Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance, vice Nancy E. Gist, resigned.
John D. Negroponte, of the District of Columbia, to be the Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations, with the rank and status of Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, and the Representative of the United States of America in the Security Council of the United Nations, vice Richard Holbrooke.
John D. Negroponte, of the District of Columbia, to be Representative of the United States of America to the Sessions of the General Assembly of the United Nations during his tenure of service as Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations.
Ronald E. Neumann, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the State of Bahrain.
Terrence L. O'Brian, of Wyoming, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice Wade Brorby, retired.
Joan E. Ohl, of West Virginia, to be Commissioner on Children, Youth, and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, vice Patricia T. Montoya, resigned.
Mark W. Olson, of Minnesota, to be a Member of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the unexpired term of fourteen years from February 1, 1996, vice Alice M. Rivlin, resigned.
John Malcolm Ordway, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Armenia.
Priscilla Richman Owen, of Texas, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice William L. Garwood, retired.
John N. Palmer, of Mississippi, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Portugal.
Barrington D. Parker, of Connecticut, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Second Circuit, vice Ralph K. Winter, retired.
Michael Parker, of Mississippi, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Army, vice Joseph W. Westphal.
James H. Payne, of Oklahoma, to be United States District Judge for the Northern, Eastern and Western Districts of Oklahoma, vice Billy Michael Burrage, retired.
Stephen Beville Pence, of Kentucky, to be United States Attorney for the Western District of Kentucky for the term of four years, vice Steven S. Reed, resigned.
Mary E. Peters, of Arizona, to be Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration, vice Kenneth R. Wykle, resigned.
Charles W. Pickering, Sr., of Mississippi, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fifth Circuit, vice Henry A. Politz, retired.
Sharon Prost, of the District of Columbia, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Federal Circuit, vice S. Jay Plager, retired.
Danny C. Reeves, of Kentucky, to be United States District Judge for the Eastern District of Kentucky, vice a new position created by Public Law 106-553, approved December 21, 2000.
Otto J. Reich, of Virginia, to be an Assistant Secretary of State (Western Hemisphere Affairs), vice Peter F. Romero.
Arlene Render, of Virginia, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Cote d'Ivoire.
Mark Edward Rey, of the District of Columbia, to be Under Secretary of Agriculture for Natural Resources and Environment, vice James R. Lyons.
Mark Edward Rey, of the District of Columbia, to be a Member of the Board of Directors of the Commodity Credit Corporation, vice Karl N. Stauber.
John G. Roberts, Jr., of Maryland, to be United States Circuit Judge for the District of Columbia Circuit, vice James L. Buckley, retired.
James Edward Rogan, of California, to be Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual Property and Director of the United States Patent and Trademark Office, vice Q. Todd Dickinson, resigned.
Marvin R. Sambur, of Indiana, to be an Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, vice Lawrence J. Delaney.
Thomas L. Sansonetti, of Wyoming, to be an Assistant Attorney General, vice Lois Jane Schiffer, resigned.
Eugene Scalia, of Virginia, to be Solicitor for the Department of Labor, vice Henry L. Solano, resigned.
Joseph E. Schmitz, of Maryland, to be Inspector General, Department of Defense, vice Eleanor Hill.
Dennis L. Schornack, of Michigan, to be Commissioner on the part of the United States on the International Joint Commission, United States and Canada, vice Thomas L. Baldini.
Donald R. Schregardus, of Ohio, to be an Assistant Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, vice Steven Alan Herman, resigned.
Mattie R. Sharpless, of North Carolina, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Career Minister, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Central African Republic.
Dennis W. Shedd, of South Carolina, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Fourth Circuit, vice Clyde H. Hamilton, retired.
Lavenski R. Smith, of Arkansas, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Eighth Circuit, vice Richard S. Arnold, retired.
Brigadier General Carl A. Strock, United States Army, to be a Member of the Mississippi River Commission, under the provisions of Section 2 of an Act of Congress, approved 28 June 1879 (21 Stat. 37)(22 USC 642).
Michael J. Sullivan, of Massachusetts, to be United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts for the term of four years, vice Donald Kenneth Stern, resigned.
John W. Suthers, of Colorado, to be United States Attorney for the District of Colorado for the term of four years, vice Thomas Lee Strickland, resigned.
Jeffrey S. Sutton, of Ohio, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Sixth Circuit, vice David A. Nelson, retired.
Mauricio J. Tamargo, of Florida, to be Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission of the United States for a term expiring September 30, 2003, vice John R. Lacey.
J. Strom Thurmond, Jr., of South Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the District of South Carolina for the term of four years, vice J. Rene Josey.
John F. Turner, of Wyoming, to be Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, vice David B. Sandalow.
Timothy M. Tymkovich, of Colorado, to be United States Circuit Judge for the Tenth Circuit, vice John C. Porfilio, retired.
Joseph S. Van Bokkelen, of Indiana, to be United States Attorney for the Northern District of Indiana for the term of four years, vice Jon Ernest DeGuilio, resigned.
Gregory F. Van Tatenhove, of Kentucky, to be United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Kentucky for the term of four years, vice Joseph Leslie Famularo, resigned.
Kirk Van Tine, of Virginia, to be General Counsel of the Department of Transportation, vice Nancy E. McFadden.
Odessa F. Vincent, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of fifteen years, vice Evelyn E. Crawford Queen, term expiring.
Anna Mills S. Wagoner, of North Carolina, to be United States Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina for the term of four years, vice Walter Clinton Holton, Jr., resigned.
Marcelle M. Wahba, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the United Arab Emirates.
R. Barrie Walkley, of California, a Career Member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of Minister-Counselor, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Guinea.
John P. Walters, of Michigan, to be Director of National Drug Control Policy, vice Barry R. McCaffrey, resigned.
Reggie B. Walton, of the District of Columbia, to be United States District Judge for the District of Columbia, vice Stanley Sporkin, retired.
B. John Williams, Jr., of Virginia, to be Chief Counsel for the Internal Revenue Service and an Assistant General Counsel in the Department of the Treasury, vice Stuart L. Brown, resigned.
Mary Ellen Coster Williams, of Maryland, to be a Judge of the United States Court of Federal Claims for a term of fifteen years, vice Sarah L. Wilson.
Terry L. Wooten, of South Carolina, to be United States District Judge for the District of South Carolina, vice a new position created by Public Law 106-553, approved December 21, 2000.
  