
    Good morning. President Kufuor and Mrs. Kufuor, it is a pleasure to welcome you back to the White House. The American people are honored to receive Ghana's official delegation, and Laura and I are happy to host two good friends.
The ties of friendship between the United States and Ghana are strong, and they are enduring. Many Americans—citizens trace their ancestry to Ghana. For example, the great jazz legend Louis Arm-strong traced his ancestry back to Ghana. Centuries ago, Armstrong's forebears came to America as slaves. In 1956, Armstrong returned to Ghana and played a concert for more than 100,000 people who turned out to celebrate their country's march toward freedom.
And when Ghana's independence was secure, President Eisenhower sent a message to Ghanaians from the people of the United States. He said, "We revere in common with you the great and eternal principles which characterize the free democratic way of life. I am confident that our two countries will stand as one in safeguarding this greatest of all bonds between us."
Half a century later, we see that President Eisenhower's confidence was well placed. Today, Ghana and America are still bound by our love for liberty, and we stand as one in our efforts to safeguard freedom.
Ghana and America stand as one as we work to secure freedom from poverty. Ghana's leaders are governing justly, fighting corruption, and investing in their people. And America is proud to support these efforts through our Millennium Challenge compact. Together, we work with Ghana to improve agriculture and infrastructure and support development in Ghana's rural areas and bring prosperity to Ghana's people. We have worked to promote free trade as a powerful engine of prosperity for both our countries. Last year, trade between Ghana and the United States was valued at more than $600 million, an increase of more than 55 percent since President Kufuor and I took office.
Ghana and America stand as one in our work to free people from illiteracy and ignorance. Through the Africa Education Initiative, Ghana and the United States have partnered to provide thousands of scholarships to girls. We've trained teachers. And across that important country, schools are being renovated, textbooks are being distributed, and Ghana's children are looking toward a brighter future.
Ghana and America stand as one in our work to free people from disease. Together, we've protected hundreds of thousands of people from malaria. Starting this month, Ghana and the United States will begin distributing medicines to about 8 million people as part of a new initiative to combat neglected tropical diseases.
Ghana and America stand as one in our work to promote free elections. Ghana is now in the middle of a lively election season, marked by spirited debate and closefought contests, which sounds kind of familiar, Mr. President. [Laughter] Whatever the outcome, Ghana is showing Africa that democracy is not a challenge to be feared, but a sure path to prosperity and peace.
Ghana and America stand as one in our work to promote peace. Ghana is a vital partner in our efforts to resolve the crisis in Darfur. Ghana has more than 3,000 peacekeepers serving around the world, from Liberia and the Congo to Kosovo and Georgia.
President Kufuor, your country is a model of entrepreneurship and democracy and peace on the continent of Africa. We are grateful for the warm friendship your nation has shown ours. When Laura and I visited Ghana this February, we were touched by the gracious hospitality shown by you and Mrs. Kufuor. Thousands of people lined the street to show their gratitude to America. One shop even painted the colors of the American flag; I hope their business went up. [Laughter] I was moved by your decision to name a new road the "George Bush Motorway." Maybe next time I visit Ghana, I can see that motorway without stopping a lot of traffic. [Laughter]
What inspired us most on our visit was the incredible energy and optimism of Ghana's people. I will always remember the Little League game in Accra, played between children from local churches and a local orphanage. As each young batter stepped up to the plate, we heard about their plans for the future, to become businessmen or doctors or astronauts or even a fashion designer. One after another, we saw children confident of their place in a free and prosperous Ghana.
Mr. President, I congratulate you on the progress Ghana has made under your strong leadership. And on behalf of the American people, Laura and I are honored to welcome you and Mrs. Kufuor to the United States. May God bless you, and may God continue to bless our great nations. Mr. President.
  