
    WASHINGTON, DC – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
•      John G. Stratton – Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
•      David Ullrich – Commissioner, United States Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission
•      Ryan Wulff – Deputy United States Commissioner, International Whaling Commission
President Obama said, "I am confident that these outstanding individuals will greatly serve the American people in their new roles and I look forward to working with them in the months and years to come."
President Obama announced his intent to appoint the following individuals to key Administration posts:
John G. Stratton, Appointee for Member, President's National Security Telecommunications Advisory Committee
John G. Stratton is President of Verizon Enterprise Solutions, a branch of Verizon Communications Inc. Mr. Stratton has worked for Verizon and its predecessor, Bell Atlantic Mobile, for over 18 years. He has held a number of executive level positions in the company, including Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Verizon Wireless from 2010 to 2012, and Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer for Verizon Wireless from 2009 to 2010. He joined Bell Atlantic Mobile in 1993 as Director of Retail Sales and Operations.
David Ullrich, Appointee for Commissioner, United States Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission
David Ullrich is currently Executive Director of the Great Lakes and St. Lawrence Cities Initiative, a position he has held since 2003. From 1973 to 2003, Mr. Ullrich served at the United States Environmental Protection Agency's Great Lakes regional office in various capacities, including Acting Regional Administrator and Deputy Regional Administrator. Mr. Ullrich has served on the Water Quality Board for the International Joint Commission since 1997, and was U.S. Chair from 1997 to 2003. He also serves on the Board of the Great Lakes Observing System, is a member of the Great Lakes Regional Water Program Advisory Group, and was a founding member of the Midwest Natural Resources Group, where he served as Chair from 1998 to 1999. From 2006 to February 2012, he was a Commissioner of the U.S. Section of the Great Lakes Fishery Commission. Mr. Ullrich received a B.A. from Dartmouth College and a J.D. from the University of Wisconsin Law School.
Ryan Wulff, Appointee for Deputy United States Commissioner, International Whaling Commission
Ryan Wulff is a senior policy advisor at the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) for the Southwest Region, and is an Alternate United States Commissioner to the International Whaling Commission. From 2009 to 2012, Mr. Wulff served as the senior policy advisor to the Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere on domestic and international protected resource and fisheries issues. From 2008 to 2009, Mr. Wulff was a foreign affairs specialist at NOAA Fisheries Service where he was a member of United States delegations to the International Commission for the Conservation of Atlantic Tunas and the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species. Mr. Wulff received a B.A. from Brown University and an M.A.S. from the Scripps Institution of Oceanography at the University of California, San Diego.
  