
    AUSTIN — Texas Gov. Rick Perry today received the endorsement of six of the nation's elected Agriculture Commissioners, representing two-thirds of the Republicans that are elected to this post.
Agriculture Commissioners endorsing Gov. Perry include:

Michael Strain of Louisiana
Lester Spell of Mississippi
Steve Troxler of North Carolina
Hugh Weathers of South Carolina
Todd Staples of Texas

Commissioner Gary Black of Georgia previously announced his support of Gov. Perry in early September.
"I am honored to receive the support of these principled conservatives to my campaign for President," said Gov. Perry. "As a former agriculture commissioner and governor of a state with a significant agriculture sector, I have a deep understanding of the challenges our farmers and ranchers face, and the resources they need to succeed. As president, I will work with the states to ensure our ag professionals have the tools and freedom they need to thrive, and I will work to reverse the damaging policies of this current administration so that we can create the jobs that will get America working again."
"As a former cotton farmer and Texas Agriculture Commissioner, Rick Perry understands the needs of Georgia agriculture and rural America," said Georgia Commissioner Gary Black. "And as a true fiscal conservative, he shares my belief in a limited government that doesn't over-regulate, over-tax or over-spend. Rick Perry's proven conservative leadership is exactly what America needs."
"Gov. Rick Perry has a proven record of working on behalf of farmers and ranchers in Texas, both as governor and a former ag commissioner," said Louisiana Commissioner Mike Strain. "Agricultural industries across America would do well to have him as our next President and I am proud to endorse him in his bid for the White House. He is the leader our nation needs to get America working again, revive our economy and bring back a sense of pride to this great country."
"Gov. Perry's leadership of Texas, both as governor and a past agriculture commissioner, prove his unwavering commitment to supporting the agriculture community," said Mississippi Commissioner Lester Spell, Jr. "As president, he will no doubt get our nation's fiscal house in order, implement policies that will create jobs and ensure that agriculture professionals have the tools they need to thrive."
"As a rancher, farmer and past agriculture commissioner, Governor Rick Perry has proven that he understands and supports agriculture," said North Carolina Commissioner Steve Troxler. "Under a Perry presidency, farmers and agribusiness across our nation will have the tools they need to thrive, and provide the food American families depend on everyday. I am proud to endorse Gov. Perry in his bid for President. He is the leader our nation needs to get our economy back on track."
"The policies and initiatives that Gov Rick Perry has advanced, both as governor and as agriculture commissioner, have brought dividends to the people of Texas," said South Carolina Commissioner Hugh Weathers. "They point out his understanding of and a commitment to the agriculture community. Rick Perry has the leadership that our country needs from its President to get our nation back to work and the strength to reverse the policies of the Obama Administration that have not worked. I am proud to endorse his campaign for President so that all of us who enjoy the bounty of American agriculture—both farmers and consumers—can benefit from Rick Perry's proven and principled leadership."
"Right now, America needs a leader like Texas Governor Rick Perry to get us off the socialist path President Obama has put us on," Texas Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples said. "Governor Perry is a true conservative who believes in low taxes, a secure border, state's rights, a fair regulatory environment and who understands that it's the private sector, not an over bearing government, that creates jobs and stimulates the economy. I am honored to endorse and stand by Governor Perry as he charts a course for this nation of which our forefathers would be proud."
  