
    President Reagan today announced the sixth annual President's Volunteer Action Awards Program to honor the outstanding volunteer achievement by individual citizens and organizations. The President will present these awards at a White House ceremony next spring. Award categories include the arts and humanities, education, the environment, health, human services, international volunteering, jobs, material resources, public safety, youth, and the workplace.
In a unique, cooperative effort between the private sector and government, VOLUNTEER: The National Center, a private, nonprofit volunteer support organization, and ACTION, the Federal volunteer agency, are cosponsoring the program for the sixth year. Funding for the program is provided by private sector corporations and foundation sponsors.
In announcing the program, the President said: "From the foundation of our Republic to the taming of the frontier, right up to modern times, voluntarism, the idea of neighbor helping neighbor, has been one of the distinguishing marks of the American experience and one of the primary causes of our nation's greatness."
VOLUNTEER, a national organization supporting greater citizen involvement in community problem-solving, provides technical assistance to volunteer-involving organizations, public agencies, unions, and corporations. It works closely with a network of over 250 associated Volunteer Action Centers and more than 1,500 other local, State, and national organizations. ACTION serves to stimulate voluntarism and to demonstrate the effectiveness of volunteers in addressing social problems. Its major programs include the Foster Grandparent, Retired Senior Volunteer and Senior Companion programs for the elderly, Volunteers in Service to America (VISTA), and a variety of programs for youth. ACTION also promotes private sector initiatives by providing short-term grants to innovative volunteer projects in such areas as literacy and drug abuse.
President Reagan presented the fifth annual awards to 15 individuals and groups, 1 labor union, and 3 corporations at a White House luncheon on June 2, 1986. Nomination forms can be obtained by writing the: President's Volunteer Action Awards Program, P.O. Box 37488, Washington, DC 20013. The deadline for submission of nominations for the 1987 awards is December 12, 1986.
  