
    HOUSTON, Texas – U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, extended his strong, national organization to the Grand Canyon State, today announcing the first round of his Arizona Leadership Team, which consists of conservative leaders from all over the state. Arizona is a winner-take-all state that holds its primary on March 22, 2016. These leadership team members join previously announced Arizona State Director Constantin Querard.
"I am excited to have the support of such an accomplished group of conservatives in Arizona," said Sen. Cruz. "Their experience and depth of political knowledge in the state is a tremendous resource for our campaign. Our growing team of grassroots activists and political leaders across the country is helping to spread our message, build our organization and raise the resources we'll need to be competitive for the long run."
"Arizona is a great state for conservatives and has led the way when it comes to financial responsibility, creating a pro-growth environment, restoring Constitutional rights, and fighting to secure our border. So it is no surprise that a courageous conservative like Senator Cruz is inspiring so many of us," Cruz for President Arizona State Director Constantin Querard said.
"If we are to save this great country and restore our Republic to its rightful place, we need to elect a conservative leader who will speak truth to power and paint in bold colors,"
said Cruz for President Arizona State Chairman Steve Montenegro, who currently serves as the Arizona House Majority Leader. "That is why I am proud to endorse Senator Ted Cruz for President and why I'm humbled to lead his effort here in Arizona. We need a leader who will awaken the great majority in this country and rally them around this great cause. Ted Cruz is that leader!"
The Cruz for President Arizona Leadership Team includes:
House Majority Leader Steve Montenegro (Maricopa County)
House Majority Whip David Livingston (Maricopa County)
State Senator Judy Burges (Maricopa County)
State Senator Sylvia Tenney Allen (Navajo County)
State Senator Steve Smith (Pinal County)
State Representative Bob Thorpe (Coconino County)
State Representative Vince Leach (Pinal County)
State Representative Mark Finchem (Pima County)
State Representative Anthony Kern (Maricopa County)
State Representative Jay Lawrence (Maricopa County)
State Representative Noel Campbell (Yavapai County)
Hon. Al Melvin, former State Senator (Pinal County)
Hon. Adam Kwasman, former State Representative (Maricopa County)
Orit Kwasman, grassroots activist (Maricopa County)
Linda Brickman, grassroots activist (Maricopa County)
  