
    Today I am convening the first White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in over 50 years. Yes, there is still hunger in America. But over the past 50 years, we have learned so much more about nutrition and the role that healthy eating plays in how our kids perform in the classroom and about nutrition and its linkages to disease prevention. This important conference and the commitment to a national strategy on ending hunger and healthier eating will build on the research and knowledge we now have to make America truly a stronger, healthier nation.
With this gathering of elected officials; advocates and activists; and leaders of business, faith, and philanthropy from across America, we are mobilizing the will to meet a bold goal: to end hunger in America and increase healthy eating and physical activity by 2030 so fewer Americans experience diet-related diseases.
This national strategy will serve as the playbook to meet this vital goal. It calls for a whole-of-government and whole-of-America approach to addressing the challenges we face. When families can't afford healthy food options, it's harder for children to succeed in school, and it can lead to mental and physical health challenges for the whole family. For so many families—including families of color, those living in rural communities and territories, and low-income families—structural inequality, such as disparities in educational and economic opportunities and lack of access to health care, safe housing, and transportation, make the impact of hunger and diet-related diseases even more severe. The pandemic made these problems worse, reinforcing the need for urgent, sustained action.
Despite these challenges, we know what to do. This national strategy builds on the historic strides that my Administration has already made to bolster economic security for American families and cut child poverty across the country. And it harnesses our greatest resource—our fellow Americans.
Everyone has an important role to play in addressing these challenges: local, State, territory and Tribal governments; Congress; the private sector; civil society; agricultural workers; philanthropists; academics; and of course, the Federal Government. In developing this national strategy, my Administration has listened to and learned from many remarkable advocates, including people who have experienced hunger and diet-related diseases themselves. To all of you, I am grateful for your unwavering commitment to meet this moment.
Together, we can build a healthier future for all Americans.
JOE BIDEN
  