
    Senator Powers, Senator Bidwell, George Smith, and Judge Elliott, members of the National Conference of Legislative Leaders:
I am delighted that the facilities of modern communications have made it possible for me to be with you for a few minutes. Each of you plays a very leading part in an important branch of government, and I cannot think of anything more important than that all of you in the State legislatures of our country should gather together and work as closely as possible together.
The indestructible union of indestructible States, created by the Constitution, has been envied and imitated by many other nations. It is the best system yet devised. But we have to make it work. It should have constant attention. And I think this conference permits that kind of attention. This conference permits you to discuss the problems which are common to every State. You can develop coordinated actions and the machinery to achieve results, and you can mobilize public opinion, the opinion of our American citizenry, to meet the basic needs of our country. Much that you do affects Federal responsibilities, and many Federal actions have an effect upon your responsibilities. This is one country with 50 States. The problems of government are becoming more and more complex, and the relationships between State and Federal Government more and more interdependent. We are all engaged, both in the State and Federal levels and the local level, in a common effort to reduce unemployment, and to eliminate poverty among our people; to make our urban centers a better place in which to live; to guarantee equal opportunity in all fields; to conquer mental retardation and mental illness; to keep this country strong; to keep it in a position where it can fulfill its responsibilities to all the free world.
New techniques and new arrangements for coordinating State and Federal efforts to achieve these goals are being considered. The Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations in which Senator Powers and others play a very vital role, is helping develop these devices. The important point is to recognize, I think, that we are allies under the Constitution, that we must work closely together. Too often it is suggested that the Federal Government and the State governments are competitors or in competition. Instead, we must work closely together for the benefit of our country which all of us seek to serve. And in the last analysis, we in Washington know that the success of any program or effort depends upon local control and local support. Our system of intergovernmental relations works best when there is complete coordination and cooperation between every level of government. I commend you for your contribution to our common goals.
We will study, I can assure you, the results of your deliberations. And I can promise you that in the months ahead that we will work closely together in the Nation and in the States for the benefit of our Country.
I am glad you have come to Boston. I know you are welcome there. And I commend you for what you are doing to serve the United States.
Thank you and good night.
  