
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

As we move toward the 21st century, the United States is challenged by the need to build a strong foundation for continued economic growth and prosperity. If we are to remain a leader in the global marketplace, we must increase our competitiveness through the production and delivery of high quality goods and services, and we must fully utilize the talents and ideas of all our workers. To do so, we must ensure that all Americans not only have the opportunity to participate in our free enterprise system, but also have the knowledge and skills needed to master ever more sophisticated technology in the workplace.
Achieving our goals for the 21st century will require an education system that is second to none, and it will require market-oriented government policies that sustain a climate conducive to business success. It will also require the best efforts of the private sector.
Minority business men and women have always demonstrated the kind of commitment to excellence that is vital to keeping America strong and competitive. Industirous and determined, these individuals have taken advantage of the opportunities available in our free enterprise system, helping to create jobs and contributing to the development of their communities. Time and again, minority entrepreneurs hve demonstrate the power of individual initiative and private enterprise, reaffirming our conviction that freedom and opportunity are the key to success for individuals and nations.
During "Minority Enterprise Development Week," we recognize the outstanding achievements of the Nation's minority business men and women. The theme of this year's observance, "Quality Business Partners: America's Minority Entrepreneurs," calls due attention to the contributions that minority men and women make to our economic vitality. This week, as we salute the more than 1.5 million minority entrepreneurs in the United States, let us also renew our commitment to providing the education, training, and equality of opportunity that will enable more Americans to join them as valued partners in the eonomic life of our country.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the week of September 30 through October 6, 1990, as Minority Enterprise Development Week. I call upon the people of the United States to observe this week with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  