
    STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATION POLICY
(Senate Floor)(Sponsors: Byrd (D), West Virginia; Inouye (D), Hawaii)
The purpose of this Statement of Administration Policy is to express the Administration's views on H.R. 5504, the FY 1993 Department of Defense Appropriations Bill, as reported by the Senate Appropriations Committee.
Provision Subject to Veto
The Administration opposes the abortion-related language in the Committee bill. This language would permit abortions to be performed at U.S. military facilities in cases other than when the life of the mother would be endangered if the fetus were carried to term. The President has stated that he would veto any legislation that would weaken current law or regulation with respect to abortion-related activities. Therefore, if this provision were to be included in the bill presented to the President, the President would veto the bill.
Funding Levels
The Administration regrets that the Committee has reduced funding for high priority programs requested by the President, and, instead, has provided funding for unrequested programs. As discussed below, the Administration believes that funding for unrequested programs should be re-directed to key defense programs requested by the President. With respect to key defense Programs, the Committee bill would:

Appropriate $3,725 million for research and development for the Strategic Defense Initiative (SDI), $1,588 million less than requested. This reduction would undermine last year's landmark "Missile Defense Act of 1991." Under the Committee's funding level for SDI, either initial deployment of strategic defenses would have to be delayed or promising technology programs would have to be canceled;
Reduce funding for development of tactical aviation programs such as the F-22, F-18 E/F, and AX aircraft and the RAH-66 and AH-64 helicopters by over $700 million and consolidate the funding in a single account. The Senate is urged to provide the amounts requested for these aircraft in the accounts proposed by the Administration to ensure strong, effective air capabilities for our forces. The Administration also objects to consolidation of funding for these aircraft in one, new appropriation -- subject to onerous reporting requirements that would restrict the obligation of funds;
Cut the request for purchases of spare parts and supplies by $3.0 billion. This would adversely affect operational capabilities and readiness, as well as long-term capabilities;
Reduce funding by $175 million for operation and maintenance of U.S. bases in Europe and for foreign nationals employed by these bases. The Committee has taken these actions in order to encourage additional burdensharing contributions from our NATO allies. The bill would also prohibit obligation of $175 million of the remaining funds for these purposes until Congress is notified that negotiations with NATO countries will yield increased contributions;
Terminate procurement of the requested 24 F-16 aircraft, which are needed to modernize fully the Air Force;
Cut procurement of the requested 48 F/A-18C/D aircraft by 50 percent;
Reduce appropriations for intelligence programs by approximately $1.0 billion. The Administration would strongly object to any amendment that would further cut funding for intelligence activities;
Delete the President's requested $175 million for the National Aerospace Plane and $125 million for the National Launch System;
Cut two of the eight C-17 aircraft requested, which are needed to modernize the strategic airlift fleet. The deletion of two aircraft and the reporting and restrictive requirements proposed in the Defense Authorization Bill could disrupt the C-17 program; and
Reduce funding for many technology base and advanced technology development programs. The Committee bill also reduces funding for many mission-related research and development programs to establish a Defense conversion account.

The Committee bill would provide unrequested funding for many programs, including the following:

$2.0 billion for undefined programs the Committee has titled "Defense Reinvestment for Economic Growth." These programs are unnecessary in view of the Administration's Defense Adjustment Assistance proposals;
$630 million for National Guard and Reserve equipment as well as $190 million for Guard and Reserve personnel. These funding levels are significantly higher than requested;
$1,050 million for an LHD-1 amphibious ship;
$150 million for procurement and modification of Bradley Infantry Fighting Vehicles; and
$50 million for a disaster relief fund.

The Administration urges the Senate to restore the funding that was cut from the President's request. In addition, the Senate is urged to re-direct funding provided by the Committee for unrequested programs to those programs that are of critical importance to the objectives of our national security policy.
Language Provisions

Section 9015 would prohibit the Department of Defense from reducing National Guard and Reserve end strength below the level funded in this bill. This provision would raise National Guard and Reserve end strength well above the request and prevent the Department from achieving a balanced and optimal active/reserve manpower mix. The Administration urges the Senate to delete this provision.
Section 9111 would require the Secretary of Defense to impose recoupment charges on sales of certain defense articles to non-U.S. Government purchasers. The President has proposed that such recoupment charges be eliminated to enhance the competitiveness of the U.S. defense industry. The Administration urges the Senate to delete this provision.
The Committee has deleted a House provision that would provide an additional $250 million for dismantlement and destruction of nuclear weapons in the former Soviet Union. The Administration urges the Senate to restore this funding so that we may sharply and permanently reduce the military and proliferation threat these weapons pose to the U.S.
Section 9017 would prohibit the Department of Defense from exceeding 125,000 civilian workyears outside of the United States. This would greatly reduce the Department's ability to manage its overseas workforce. This restriction would be less troublesome if the Secretary of Defense were authorized to vary the number of civilian workyears by five percent.

Preliminary Scoring Issues
Based on a preliminary review, several provisions in the Committee bill may be appropriately classified as domestic discretionary, rather than defense discretionary, under the Budget Enforcement Act (BEA). OMB is reviewing the language of the Committee bill and report to determine the implications of these provisions with respect to their appropriate classification under the BEA. 
  