
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Ernest W. DuBester of Virginia to be a Member of the Federal Labor Relations Authority (FLRA) for the remainder of a five year term expiring on July 1, 2019. Mr. DuBester has served as a Member of the FLRA since August 2009. He was also FLRA Chairman from January to November 2013. With over 40 years of experience in labor-management relations, he began his career at the National Labor Relations Board as counsel to former Chairman and Member John Fanning. He was also a union attorney with the firm of Highsaw & Mahoney, and legislative counsel to the AFL-CIO. From 1993-2001, he was Chairman and Member at the National Mediation Board. From 2001-2005, Mr. DuBester was the Professor and Director of the Dispute Resolution Program at the Antonin Scalia Law School. Mr. DuBester received his A.B. from Boston College, his J.D. from Catholic University, where he served as Recent Developments Editor of the Law Review, and his Masters of Law in Labor Law from Georgetown University Law Center. He is married to Karen Marie Kremer.
Neil Jacobs of North Carolina to be an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, Environmental Observation and Prediction. Dr. Jacobs is the Chief Atmospheric Scientist at Panasonic Avionics Corporation, where he directs the research and development of both the aviation weather observing program, as well as the numerical forecast models. He is the Chair of the American Meteorological Society's Forecast Improvement Group, and also serves on the World Meteorological Organization's aircraft-based observing systems expert team. Prior to joining Panasonic (AirDat) in 2005, Dr. Jacobs worked on various analyses and modeling projects including NASA's Earth Systems Science Program, GOES satellite program, and the Department of Energy's Ocean Margins Program. He has dual B.S. degrees in mathematics and physics from the University of South Carolina, and a M.S. in air-sea interaction and Ph.D. in numerical modeling from North Carolina State University. He resides in Durham, NC, with his wife Dr. Jennifer Modliszewski and sons Nicolaus and Theodore.
Timothy Kelly of Michigan to be Assistant Secretary for Career, Technical, and Adult Education, Department of Education. Mr. Kelly is currently a State representative from the 94th district in Saginaw County, Michigan. Mr. Kelly, serving in his third and final term in the Michigan House of Representatives, is the chair of the House Appropriations Subcommittee on School Aid, which oversees K-12 spending, and also chairs the House Education Reform policy committee. Prior to his election as a State representative, Mr. Kelly served one term as an elected county commissioner in Saginaw County. He also served in former Michigan Governor John Engler's administration as the governor's education policy advisor, and as a special advisor to the director of the Michigan Department of Career Development. Mr. Kelly also served in the administration of Governor Evan Bayh in Indiana as the executive director of the Indiana Human Resources Investment Council, the executive director of the Indiana Council on Vocational Education, and as a development specialist for the Indiana Department of Commerce. Before working in the public sector, Mr. Kelly worked in various subsidiaries and States for Bituminous Materials Co., Inc., his family's emulsified asphalt business. Mr. Kelly is a graduate of the University of Denver. Among many awards and recognitions for his work in the legislature, he is the 2016 recipient of the Michigan College Access Network's Compass Award, and was the MIRS 2013 Freshman Legislator of the Year.
David Christian Tryon of Ohio to be the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration. Mr. Tryon, a litigation partner with the law firm of Porter Wright Morris and Arthur, has been practicing law for over 31 years. He is a graduate of the University of Michigan Law School and has a business degree from Brigham Young University. He was born and raised in Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. Tyron has served as the President of the Brecksville/Broadview Heights School Board and is currently an Executive Board Member for the Boy Scouts of America, Lake Erie Council, a member of the Ohio Advisory Committee for the United States Commission on Civil Rights and President of the Cleveland Lawyers Chapter for the Federalist Society for Law and Public Policy. He is also a lay clergyman in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. In addition to representing both large and small corporate matters in court, Mr. Tryon has handled public interest matters on a pro bono basis.
-----
President Donald J. Trump Announces Intent to Appoint Paul Packer to the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad
President Donald J. Trump today announced his intent to appoint Paul Packer of New York to be a Member of the Commission for the Preservation of America's Heritage Abroad for the remainder of a 3-year term expiring February 27, 2019 and upon appointment designate chair.
  