
    Clinton supports many of Richardson's initiatives to provide quality affordable health care for all Americans
WASHINGTON, D.C.-- New Mexico Governor and Democratic Presidential candidate Bill Richardson today welcomed Hillary Clinton's release of a proposal that virtually mirrors the Richardson plan to provide universal health coverage for all Americans.
"Health care affects the people of this country more directly than any other issue in this campaign, and I am pleased that Senator Clinton finally has joined the debate," Governor Richardson said. "I also am proud to see that she supports most of the initiatives I have outlined in my comprehensive proposal, which is the most effective and responsible way to make sure that every American has the best possible coverage."
Several major components of the Clinton proposal announced today-- an individual mandate to obtain coverage, tax incentives to help individuals pay for coverage, and building on the federal employee health plan to provide coverage to all Americans-- were announced by Bill Richardson on August 7th in Council Bluffs, Iowa. Richardson stressed the importance of increasing choices, including the choice to keep your current coverage, instead of bureaucracy, another central element that the Clinton campaign picked up on. As if to stress the similarities in the plans, the Clinton campaign entitled its plan "The American Health Choices Plan," resembling Governor Richardson's "American Choices" plan released at the beginning of August.
Governor Richardson also expressed his approval of the inclusion of preventive services in Clinton's plan, but stated that his plan would go even further.
"My plan would require that all health plans in the country cover proven preventive services," Governor Richardson said. "Some insurance companies might fight this requirement, but I believe that no one should go without necessary cancer screenings or other lifesaving preventive care, irrespective of the plan he or she chooses."
Please find the Richardson Health Care Plan here.
  