
    Today, President Donald J. Trump today announced his first wave of United States Marshal nominations. The United States Marshal performs the essential functions of protecting the Federal judiciary, apprehending fugitives, transporting prisoners, and protecting witnesses. These five candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve as the United States Marshal for their respective jurisdictions:
If confirmed, Norman Euell Arflack of Kentucky will serve as the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Kentucky. Mr. Arflack is the current Commissioner for the Kentucky Department of Veterans Affairs, a position he has held since 2016. Previously, he served as the Commissioner of the Kentucky Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control in 2008 and the Secretary of the Kentucky Justice and Public Safety Cabinet from 2006 to 2007. He spent 17 years with the Kentucky State Police and went on to serve as a probation and parole officer with the Kentucky Department of Corrections. Mr. Arflack served in Kentucky National Guard for 38 years, reaching the rank of Brigadier General. He holds a B.S. in Law Enforcement from Eastern Kentucky University and a M.P.A. from Shippensburg University.
If confirmed, Michael T. Baylous of West Virginia will serve as the United States Marshal for the Southern District of West Virginia. Mr. Baylous is currently a Lieutenant and Public Information Officer for the West Virginia State Police, where he has served since 1994. Prior to joining the West Virginia State Police, Mr. Baylous served in the Marine Corps Reserves in Cross Lanes, West Virginia from 1987 to 1995. Mr. Baylous holds a M.A. in Government and Public Administration from Regent University, a B.A. in Political Science from the University of West Virginia, and an A.A. in Police Science from Marshall University.
If confirmed, David G. Jolley of Tennessee will serve as the United States Marshal for the Eastern District of Tennessee. Mr. Jolley is currently a Senior Security Consultant for TRC Environmental & Engineering Corporation, a position he has held since 2014. From 2009 to 2014, Mr. Jolley served as Director of the Tennessee Valley Authority Police. Previously, Mr. Jolley served for seven years as United States Marshal for the Western District of Tennessee, appointed by President George W. Bush in 2002. He began his law enforcement career as a Special Agent for the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation, where he served for 18 years. Mr. Jolley holds a B.S. in Criminal Justice Administration from Middle Tennessee State University.
If confirmed, Daniel R. McKittrick of Mississippi will serve as the United States Marshal for the Northern District of Mississippi. Mr. McKittrick was the Chief U.S. Probation Officer for the Northern District of Mississippi from 2007 to 2017. He joined the U.S. Probation Service in 1991, after 12 years with the Mississippi Department of Corrections. Mr. McKittrick holds a B.S. in Sociology with a minor in Corrections from Mississippi College.
If confirmed, Jesse Seroyer, Jr. of Alabama will serve as the United States Marshal for the Middle District of Alabama. Mr. Seroyer is a retired special projects coordinator for the Office of the Attorney General of Alabama and former U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Alabama. His law enforcement career spans 40 years, beginning with the Opelika, Alabama Police Department in 1976. He went on to serve five consecutive Alabama Attorneys General as Chief Special Investigator, Director of Investigations, and Deputy Chief Investigator for the Office of the Attorney General from 1987 to 2002. He was appointed U.S. Marshal for the Middle District of Alabama by President George W. Bush in 2002 and served in this capacity until 2010. He then returned to serve the Alabama Office of the Attorney General until his retirement in 2016.
  