
    Today, President Donald J. Trump declared that a major disaster exists for the Seminole Tribe of Florida (Tribe) and ordered Federal aid to supplement the Tribe's efforts in the areas affected by Hurricane Irma beginning on September 4, 2017, and continuing.
The President's action makes Federal funding available to affected individuals of the Tribe and its associated lands.
Assistance can include grants for temporary housing and home repairs, low-cost loans to cover uninsured property losses, and other programs to help individuals and business owners recover from the effects of the disaster.
Federal funding also is available to the Tribe and to certain private nonprofit organizations on a cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of facilities damaged by Hurricane Irma. For a period of 30 days from the start of the incident period, assistance for emergency protective measures, including direct Federal assistance, is authorized at 100 percent of the total eligible costs.
Furthermore, Federal funding is available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard mitigation measures for the Tribe and its associated lands.
Brock Long, Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), Department of Homeland Security, named Willie G. Nunn as the Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the affected areas.
Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the Tribe and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.
Residents and business owners who sustained losses in the designated areas can begin applying for assistance by registering online at http://www.DisasterAssistance.gov or by calling 1-800-621-FEMA (3362) or 1-800-462-7585 (TTY) for the hearing and speech impaired. The toll-free telephone numbers will operate from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (local time) seven days a week until further notice.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA SHOULD CONTACT THE FEMA NEWS DESK AT (202) 646-3272 OR FEMA-NEWS-DESK@FEMA.DHS.GOV.
  