
    Richardson only candidate to call for all troops out of Iraq
SANTA FE, NM -- In the last Democratic Presidential debate in Iowa, Governor Bill Richardson said it best, "You know, I think that Senator Obama does represent change. Senator Clinton has experience. Change and experience: With me, you get both."
Today the Richardson for President Campaign released a new television ad in Iowa called "Offers". The spot emphasizes that Bill Richardson is the only candidate in the race who brings both change and experience to the Presidential race despite the fact that other candidates may be "borrowing" the phrase.
Watch the ad and find the background documents here:
http://action.richardsonforpresident.com/offers
The ad recounts Governor Richardson's unparalleled experience and record of achievement in foreign policy. He has been nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize four times and recently helped negotiate the shutdown of North Korea's nuclear weapons program.
"At a time when our nation faces the most serious global and domestic challenges in its history, and the next President must repair the extensive damage done by the current administration, no one is more qualified or prepared to lead than Bill Richardson," campaign manager Dave Contarino said.
The new ad also reinforces that Governor Richardson is the only major candidate with a detailed plan to get all US troops out of Iraq, leaving behind no residual forces.
"There are serious differences among the candidates on Iraq," Contarino said. "Governor Richardson is the only major candidate with a responsible, urgent plan to end the Iraq War with a total US withdrawal and extensive, US-led diplomacy. The other major candidates still have not leveled with the American people as to how many troops they would leave in Iraq and for how long."
Bill Richardson was elected seven times to the US Congress and served as US Ambassador to the United Nations and Secretary of Energy. He is currently in his second term as Governor of New Mexico after winning reelection by a historic margin.
The latest Iowa poll by the American Research Group shows Governor Richardson at 13%, solidly in contention several months before the state's caucuses.
  