
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Kevin Madden (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Mitt Romney issued the following statement regarding Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger's (R-CA) announcement that he will sign legislation requiring California pension funds to divest from companies linked to the Iranian regime:
"We need to tighten the screws on Iran. Today's announcement by Governor Schwarzenegger is an important step in isolating a regime that threatens genocide, supports terrorism and defiantly seeks nuclear capabilities. Starting in January at Israel's Herzliya Conference, I have called for our state leaders to take action to divest our public pension funds from Iran. In the months ahead, I hope other leaders will join this effort. We have to send the strongest possible message that the world does not support the Iranian regime's sinister actions."
Background:
Today, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger (R-CA) Announced That He Would Sign Legislation Requiring The State's Pension Funds To Divest From Companies Doing Business In Iran. "As the world watched for news of Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in New York, Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger, who also happened to be in town, prepared to steal some of the spotlight by announcing that California would sever ties with companies doing business in Iran. Schwarzenegger, who like Ahmadinejad went to New York to address the United Nations, told The Times in a written statement that he would sign legislation requiring California's multibillion-dollar state pension funds to divest from the country." (Evan Halper, "State To Cut Ties With Firms Doing Business In Iran," Los Angeles Times, 8/24/07)
At The January 2007 Herzliya Conference In Israel, Governor Romney Proposed That State Pension Funds Pursue Strategic Divestment From Companies Doing Business With The Iranian Regime. "In my meetings in Israel this week, I have become aware of a potential US pension system to further isolate the Iranian economy. We should explore a selective disinvestment policy. After a series of briefings here, I actually contacted the Treasurer of my own state of Massachusetts and the Governors of some of the neighboring states to begin this process. They are going to begin meeting today with senior Israeli leaders that are in Boston today." (Governor Mitt Romney, Remarks At The Seventh Annual Herzliya Conference, Herzliya, Israel, 1/23/07)
- Governor Romney Has Called On Pension Funds Across The United States To Strategically Divest From Iran. "Republican Mitt Romney, seeking to make U.S. policy toward Iran his issue, on Thursday urged several elected New York officials to divest any state pension funds from Iran. 'With your new responsibilities overseeing one of America's largest pension funds, you have a unique opportunity to lead an effort to isolate Iran as it pursues nuclear armament,' the 2008 presidential contender wrote to New York State Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli." (Glen Johnson, "Romney Calls On New York Officials To Divest From Iran," The Associated Press, 2/22/07)
- Click Here To Read Governor Romney's Iran Strategy.
  