
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

Each day, members of our Nation's emergency medical services (EMS) teams help to save lives. Providing swift, specialized care for seriously ill or injured persons -- at all hours of the day or night and often while enduring difficult and even hazardous conditions -- emergency medical personnel demonstrate daily the depth of their bravery, dedication, and compassion.
At some time in our lives, most of us will witness or even benefit from the extraordinary efforts of EMS personnel in the wake of a motor vehicle collision, an industrial or household accident, sudden illness, or natural disaster. Medical emergencies arise from many such sources, but emergency medical care is always a team effort. From the paramedics and emergency medical technician who provide immediate care at the scene of a crisis to the physicians, nurses, and technical specialist who offer emergency care in the hospital setting, thousands of hardworking, highly skilled men and women labor together to ensure the success of our Nation's emergency medical services systems. The unsung heroes of our Nation's EMS teams include dispatchers and other communications specialists, transport personnel who move patients quickly to medical centers for treatment, administrators, and educators who provide training in emergency skills and accident prevention.
Whether full-time workers or volunteers, the dedicated men and women who seve their communities as members of EMS teams deserve the highest recognition and praise. This week, we applaud their lifesaving efforts in emergency care and accident prevention and express our determination to cooperate with them in building a safer, healthier America.
The Congress, by House Joint Resolution 568, has designated the week beginning September 16, 1990, as "Emergency Medical Services Week" and has authorized and requested the Presdident to issue a proclamation in observance of this week.
Now, Therefore, I, George Bush, President of the United States of America, do hereby proclaim the week beginning September 16, 1990, as Emergency Medical Services Week. I call upon all Americans to observe this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
In Witness Whereof, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and ninety, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and fifteenth.

GEORGE BUSH
  