
    Pool Reports by Aurelia End, Agence France-Presse 



Sent:
Reports:




September 3, 202311:16

Out of town pool report #1 - Call time now 3 pm
Hello from Rehoboth. Our call time has been pushed from 12 pm to 3 pm.



September 3, 202316:19

Out of town pool report #2 - Biden briefed on Burning Man
Sharing this
From a White House official: President Biden has been briefed on the situation at the Burning Man festival in Nevada's Black Rock Desert. Administration officials are monitoring the situation and are in touch with state and local officials. Event attendees should listen to state and local officials, and event organizers.



September 3, 202316:41

Out of town pool report #3 - Church
The pool bus joined the motorcade near the president's beach house at 4:27 pm.
The motorcade arrived at St Edmond's Catholic Church at 4:35 pm after an uneventful ride.
Your pooler did not see Potus enter the church.
We are now holding outside.



September 3, 202317:46

Out of town pool report #4 - Leaving church, QA
At 5:25 pm the president exited the church.
He answered questions on Burning Man, the G20, the new Ukrainian defense minister but he was far away and it was very difficult to hear so please check against audio/transcript.
He said he was "disappointed" that Xi will not attend the G20. "I am going to get to see him", he added.
About Burning Man the president said people there should pay attention to local officials.
He also explained that he is "not on vacation" in Rehoboth and that he is here because Secret Servie is working on his house (your pooler assumes he was referring to his residence in Wilmington). "I am not homeless" he said.
He did not comment on the news about the Ukrainian Defense Minister.
Your pooler will try to get better audio and quotes.
At 5:27 pm he got into his car and the motorcade drove back to his house. At 5:45 pm we have a lid.



September 3, 202318:14

Out of town pool report #4a - More quotes
Some more quotes from the president's gaggle a few moments ago.
Again, part of it was difficult to hear so check against transcript.
Asked whether he was looking forward to his trip to India and Vietnam this coming week, the president said "Yes I am"
He told the pool about his house in Wilmington undergoing renovation to "make it secure"
"I'm here for the day because I can't go home-home", the president added.
Asked whether he had heard that President Zelensky was replacing his defense minister, POTUS answered "Yes" but he declined to further comment.
On Xi not attending the G20, the president said: "I am disappointed, but I am going to get to see him"
That's it from me today. Huge thanks to my fellow poolers for their help and especially to Nik Popli from Time.
Have a great evening.




  