
    Today President Donald J. Trump announced his seventh wave of United States Attorney nominations. The United States Attorney serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer within his or her Federal judicial district. These 足足足足four candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve as the United States Attorney for their respective jurisdictions.
If confirmed, Erin Nealy Cox of Texas will serve as the United States Attorney for the Northern District of Texas. Ms. Nealy Cox is currently a Senior Advisor at McKinsey & Co in the cybersecurity and risk practice. She also serves on the Board of Directors of Sally Beauty Holdings, a large retailer on the NYSE. From 1999 to 2008, Ms. Nealy Cox served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Northern District of Texas, where she prosecuted cyber crimes, white collar crimes, and general crimes. In 2004 and 2005, she served at Main Justice as chief of staff and senior counsel to the Assistant Attorney General in the Office of Legal Policy. Ms. Nealy Cox also previously worked at Stroz Friedberg, a cybersecurity and investigations consulting firm. Ms. Nealy Cox clerked for the Honorable Henry A. Politz, when he served as Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit, and the Honorable Barefoot Sanders, United States District Judge in the Northern District of Texas. She received a B.B.A in finance from the McCombs School of Business at the University of Texas at Austin and her J.D., magna cum laude, from Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law.
If confirmed, Duane A. Kees of Arkansas will serve as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Arkansas. Mr. Kees is currently an ethics and compliance director with Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., where he focuses on corporate investigations. Mr. Kees served in the U.S Army JAG Corps for eight years. During his time on active duty, he prosecuted and defended a variety of complex cases and earned two Bronze Stars and a Meritorious Service Medal. He is currently a Major in the Arkansas National Guard. He previously was a partner at the Asa Hutchinson Law Group, LLC. He received his B.A. from the University of Arkansas and his J.D. from the University of Arkansas School of Law.
If confirmed, Matthew D. Krueger of Wisconsin will serve as the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Wisconsin. Mr. Krueger is currently an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Wisconsin, and has worked in the U.S. Attorney's Office since 2013. Mr. Krueger previously worked as an associate at Sidley Austin LLP in Washington, D.C. He also served as a Bristow Fellow in the U.S. Department of Justice, Office of the Solicitor General. He clerked for the Honorable Paul V. Niemeyer of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit. Mr. Krueger received his B.S., with honors, from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and his J.D., summa cum laude, from the University of Minnesota Law School, where he served as editor-in-chief of the Minnesota Law Review.
If confirmed, Christina E. Nolan of Vermont will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Vermont. Since 2010, Ms. Nolan has served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Vermont, where she has prosecuted a variety of criminal cases, including complex drug trafficking offenses, money laundering, firearms offenses, violent crime, and crimes against children. Ms. Nolan previously served as an Assistant District Attorney in Middlesex County, Massachusetts. From 2005 to 2009, Ms. Nolan worked as a litigation associate at Goodwin Procter LLP, in Boston, where she concentrated her practice in white collar criminal defense. Ms. Nolan clerked for The Honorable F. Dennis Saylor IV, of the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts. A native Vermonter, Ms. Nolan graduated with departmental honors from the University of Vermont, summa cum laude, with B.A.s in political science and history. She received a J.D., magna cum laude, from Boston College Law School.
  