
    The following list includes the President's public schedule and other items of general interest announced by the Office of the Press Secretary and not included elsewhere in this issue.
September 15
In the afternoon, the President met in the Cabinet Room with leaders of environmental organizations to discuss climate change.
The White House announced that the President intends to nominate Gloria Tristani to be a member of the Federal Communications Commission.
September 16
In the morning, the President traveled to Langley, VA, and in the afternoon, he returned to Washington, DC.
The President announced his intention to nominate Terrence J. Brown to be Assistant Administrator for Management at the Agency for International Development.
The President announced his intention to nominate Jerry MacArthur Hultin to be Under Secretary of the Navy.
The President announced his intention to nominate F. Whitten Peters to be Under Secretary of the Air Force.
The White House announced that the President will meet with the spiritual leader of the Orthodox Christian Church, Ecumenical Patriarch Bartholomew, at the White House on October 22.
September 17
The President declared a major disaster in Illinois and ordered Federal aid to supplement State and local recovery efforts in the area struck by severe thunderstorms and flash flooding August 16-17.
September 18
In the evening, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton traveled to Palo Alto, CA.
The President announced his intention to nominate M. John Berry to be Secretary for Policy, Management, and Budget at the Department of the Interior.
The President announced his intention to nominate Paul R. Carey and Laura S. Unger to be Commissioners to the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The President announced his intention to appoint Jeffrey Jaffe, Mayor Sharon Sayles Belton of Minneapolis, MN, and Joseph Holmes as members to the Advisory Committee to the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection.
September 19
In the afternoon, the President and Hillary and Chelsea Clinton attended the Stanford University convocation ceremony on the main quad of the campus.
The President announced his intention to nominate Seth P. Waxman to be Solicitor General at the Justice Department.
  