
    Today, Mitt Romney announced that Peter Schaumber and William Kilberg will serve as Co-Chairs of his Labor Policy Advisory Group. The group will help Mitt Romney formulate pro-growth policies that promote the interests of workers and businesses by protecting the principles of free enterprise, free choice, and free speech. Romney discussed his vision for the future of labor policy, and its role in economic growth and job creation, today in North Charleston, South Carolina.
"Employees must have the freedom to choose whether or not to support a union, and business owners must have confidence that new investments and hiring will be profitable," said Mitt Romney. "President Obama has pursued policies that benefit his Big Labor political allies at the expense of the economy. The valuable counsel from my Labor Policy Advisory Group has helped shape the policies I am proposing to return power from the labor bosses to the workers and businesses that can get our economy going again. I look forward to working with this team to further develop and introduce policies that will create the right environment for economic growth and job creation."
"Mitt Romney's extensive private sector experience has given him a unique understanding of the needs of both employees and employers, and the damage that unwise labor policy can do to that relationship," said former NLRB Chairman Peter Schaumber. "The policies that he proposes will make significant strides in protecting the rights of workers while fostering a pro-growth environment that will create jobs."
Background On The Co-Chairs Of Mitt Romney's Labor Policy Advisory Group:
Peter Schaumber Served As The Chairman Of The National Labor Relations Board From 2008 To 2009. Schaumber was a member of the Board from 2002 to 2010. Prior to his service on the Board, Schaumber was a labor arbitrator serving on numerous industry panels and national arbitration rosters.
William Kilberg Served As The Solicitor Of Labor From 1973 To 1977. Kilberg is a member of the Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher Executive Committee and is the most senior partner in the firm's Labor & Employment Law practice. He is currently lead counsel for Boeing in a complaint brought by the NLRB challenging Boeing's decision to open a new plant in North Charleston, South Carolina.
  