
    The President today announced his intention to appoint the following individuals as members of the Native Hawaiians Study Commission. The President intends to designate Kina'u Boyd Kamali'i as Chairman and Stephen P. Shipley as Vice Chairman. In addition, he announced that he is calling for the first meeting to be held on September 23, 1981.
Kina'u Boyd Kamali'i is minority leader of the Hawaii House of Representatives. She was elected to the House of Representatives in 1974. She served as State chairman of the Reagan-Bush campaign in Hawaii in 1980. Mrs. Kamali'i was born October 24, 1930, in Honolulu, Hawaii.
Stephen P. Shipley is executive assistant to the Secretary of the Interior. Previously he was vice president of the Mountain States Legal Foundation in Denver, Colo., and assistant manager of the Bonneville Power Administration, Department of Energy. Mr. Shipley was born June 27, 1945, in Jackson, Wyo.
Winona K. D. Beamer is currently retired from Kamehameha Schools in Hawaii. She is a Hawaiian scholar of music and dance with an extensive background in the composition of Hawaiian music (contemporary and ancient). Mrs. Beamer was born August 15, 1923, in Honolulu, Hawaii.
H. Rodger Betts is corporation counsel for the County of Maul. Previously he was General Counsel of the Community Services Administration and an aide to Senator Hiram Fong (R-Hawaii). Mr. Betts was born July 18, 1924, in Waipahu, Oahu, Hawaii.
Carol E. Dinkins is currently Assistant Attorney General, Land and Natural Resources Division, Department of Justice. Prior to her present post, she was principal associate and adjunct assistant professor of law at the University of Houston. Mrs. Dinkins was born November 9, 1945, in Corpus Christi, Tex.
James C. Handley is special assistant to the Secretary of Agriculture. Previously he was assistant director of the Office of Personnel, Governor's Office, State of Illinois. Mr. Handley was born December 28, 1943, in Tuscola, Ill.
Diane K. Morales is Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy, Territorial and International Affairs, Department of the Interior. Previously she worked with a marketing firm in Houston, Tex. Miss Morales was born July 11, 1946, in Houston, Tex.
Glenn R. Schleede is Executive Associate Director, Office of Management and Budget. Prior to this position, he was senior vice president of the National Coal Association. Mr. Schleede was born June 12, 1933, in Lyons, N.Y.
  