
    The President today announced that he will nominate five persons as Delegates and five as Alternates to serve on the U.S. Delegation to the 21 st General Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), to be held in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, beginning September 23, 1980.
The General Conference is UNESCO's governing body and meets every 2 years. At this meeting, representatives of 149 member states will review and approve the UNESCO program and budget for 1981-83. The agenda also includes consideration of the report of the International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems (the MacBride Commission), a report on the progress made in reaching the goals of the U.N. Decade for Women, and the draft resolution concerning the status of the artist.
The Delegates and Alternates to be nominated are:
Delegates
ROBIN CHANDLER DUKE, who will serve as Chairman of the Delegation. She is active in numerous national and international humanitarian organizations. She is a former journalist and has devoted much of her career to surveying various problems in underdeveloped nations. On confirmation by the Senate, she will be accorded the rank of Ambassador.
BARBARA NEWELL, who will serve as Vice-Chairman of the Delegation. She is the U.S. Permanent Representative to UNESCO, with the rank of Ambassador. She was previously president of Wellesley College and a professor of economics there.
ELIE ABEL, the Harry and Norman Chandler Professor of Communications at Stanford University. He was the U.S. member of UNESCO's International Commission for the Study of Communication Problems.
JOHN E. FOBES, a visiting professor at the University of North Carolina and Duke University, chairman of the U.S. National Commission for UNESCO, and former Deputy Director-General of UNESCO. He was a member of the U.S. Delegation to the last UNESCO General Conference in 1978.
JOHN HOPE FRANKLIN, a prominent historian and expert on black history, recently retired from the University of Chicago, where he was a professor of American history. He was previously chairman of the Department of History at Brooklyn College and Pitt Professor of American History and Institutions at Cambridge University.
Alternates
JOSEPH D. DUFFEY, Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, former Assistant Secretary of State for Educational and Cultural Affairs, and a member of the U.S. Delegation to the 1978 UNESCO General Conference.
SANDRA LOPEZ DE BIRD, Assistant Regional Director of the New York Regional Office of the Federal Trade Commission and chairperson of the board of the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund.
KATHLEEN NOLAN, an actress in television, films, and theater, former president of the Screen Actors Guild, and a member of the Board of Directors of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
BEATRICE RANIS, chairman of the board of the Hawaiian State Foundation on Culture and the Arts and chairman of the Consortium for Pacific Arts and Culture.
ROGER REVELLE, a professor of science and public policy at the University of California at San Diego. He is the Richard Saltonstall Professor of Population Policy Emeritus at Harvard University, a former director of the Scripps Institute of Oceanography, and founder of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission.
  