
    On Monday, September 12th, First Lady Jill Biden and U.S. Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona will hold events in Knoxville, Tennessee and Greensboro, North Carolina to kick off the Road to Success Back to School Bus Tour. The First Lady and Secretary Cardona will highlight ways states and districts are recruiting and preparing qualified educators for the classroom, and meet with teachers and teachers-in-training who are participating in leading teacher pipeline programs in Tennessee and North Carolina. The Department of Education's Road to Success Back to School Bus Tour will showcase the many ways school communities are supporting students and teachers, including utilizing historic resources for schools provided by the Biden-Harris Administration's American Rescue Plan.
Knoxville, TN
On Sunday, September 11th at 8:15 PM ET, the First Lady will arrive at McGhee Tyson Airport in Alcoa, TN. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Saturday 9/10 at 6:00 PM ET.
On Monday, September 12th, at 9:15 AM ET, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will visit a local Knox County School to meet with teachers participating in Tennessee's Grow Your Own Initiative, which works to strengthen Tennessee's educator pipeline, and then deliver remarks at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville. These visits will be open press with limited capacity. For media interested in covering both visits, please RSVP HERE by Saturday 9/10 at 6:00 PM ET.
Greensboro, NC
At 12:45 PM ET, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will arrive at Piedmont Triad International Airport in Greensboro, NC. This arrival will be open press. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Saturday 9/10 at 6:00 PM ET.
At 1:15 PM ET, the First Lady and Secretary Cardona will visit North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State University in Greensboro, NC to meet with students in the North Carolina A&T College of Education and deliver remarks at a school rally. This visit will be open press with limited capacity. For interested media, please RSVP HERE by Saturday 9/10 at 6:00 PM ET.
  