
    President Donald J. Trump today announced his sixth wave of United States Attorney nominations. The United States Attorney serves as the chief Federal law enforcement officer within his or her Federal judicial district. These nine candidates share the President's vision for "Making America Safe Again." Accordingly, the President today announced his intent to nominate these individuals to serve as the United States Attorney for their respective jurisdictions.
If confirmed, John F. Bash of Texas will serve as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Texas. Mr. Bash is currently a Special Assistant to the President and Associate Counsel to the President. From 2012 to 2017, he served as an Assistant to the Solicitor General in the United States Department of Justice. In that role, he argued ten cases on behalf of the United States in the Supreme Court, and he litigated or advised on numerous cases and other matters involving a range of federal legal questions, with a special emphasis on national security and criminal law. He previously was an associate attorney at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP in Washington, D.C., where his practice focused on complex litigation in Federal district and appellate courts. Mr. Bash clerked for the Honorable Antonin Scalia of the United States Supreme Court and the Honorable Brett M. Kavanaugh of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. He received his A.B., summa cum laude, from Harvard University and his J.D., magna cum laude, from Harvard Law School.
If confirmed, Scott W. Brady of Pennsylvania will serve as the United States Attorney for the Western District of Pennsylvania. Scott W. Brady is currently the head of litigation for Federated Investors, Inc. Mr. Brady previously served as an Assistant United States Attorney in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania from 2004 to 2010, where he prosecuted white collar crime, violent crime and drug trafficking offenses. Mr. Brady also served as an associate at Jones Day and at Reed Smith LLP, where his practice focused on multi-district litigation, white collar criminal matters and internal investigations. He clerked for the Honorable Thomas M. Hardiman of the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. Mr. Brady serves as an adjunct faculty member at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law. Prior to law school, Mr. Brady worked in emergency relief and development in Europe, the Middle East and Central Asia. He graduated from Harvard University and the Pennsylvania State University School of Law.
If confirmed, Bobby L. Christine of Georgia will serve as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of Georgia. Mr. Christine is currently a Magistrate Judge in Columbia County, and a partner at the law firm of Christine and Evans, LLC. He is also a Colonel in the Georgia Army National Guard, where he serves as State Judge Advocate. Previously, Mr. Christine served nearly a decade as an Assistant District Attorney in Augusta, Georgia. He received his B.A. from the University of Georgia, and his J.D. from Cumberland School of Law at Samford University.
If confirmed, David J. Freed of Pennsylvania will serve as the United States Attorney for the Middle District of Pennsylvania. Mr. Freed is currently serving his 12th year as the elected District Attorney of Cumberland County, Pennsylvania. He previously served five years as First Assistant District Attorney in Cumberland County prosecuting Homicides, Violent Felonies, Arson and Complex Drug Transactions and as a Deputy Prosecutor in York County, Pennsylvania as well as in private law practice focusing on civil litigation. Mr. Freed is the former President (2013-2014) of the Pennsylvania District Attorneys Association and has been a member of its Executive Committee since 2007. He received his B.A., cum laude, from Washington and Lee University and his J.D. from the Dickinson School of Law of the Pennsylvania State University.
If confirmed, Andrew E. Lelling of Massachusetts will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Massachusetts. Mr. Lelling is currently the senior litigation counsel for the United States Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts and has worked in that office for 12 years, prosecuting white collar crime and international drug trafficking, among other offenses. Mr. Lelling also served as an Assistant United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia. He previously served as counsel to the Assistant Attorney General at the Department of Justice Civil Rights Division. Mr. Lelling clerked for the Honorable B. Avant Edenfield of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Georgia. He received his B.A., magna cum laude, from the State University of New York at Binghamton and his J.D., cum laude, from the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
If confirmed, Stephen R. McAllister of Kansas will serve as the United States Attorney for the District of Kansas. Mr. McAllister is currently the Solicitor General of Kansas and the E.S. & Tom W. Hampton Distinguished Professor of Law at the University of Kansas. Mr. McAllister has argued nine times before the Supreme Court of the United States and currently teaches constitutional and federal civil rights law at the University of Kansas. Mr. McAllister clerked for the Honorable Clarence Thomas of the United States Supreme Court, the Honorable Byron R. White of the United States Supreme Court, and the Honorable Richard A. Posner of the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. He received his B.A., with highest distinction, from the University of Kansas, and his J.D., magna cum laude, from the University of Kansas School of Law.
If confirmed, Matthew G.T. Martin of North Carolina will serve as the United States Attorney for the Middle District of North Carolina. Mr. Martin is currently Associate General Counsel for Duke Energy Corporation. He was previously a partner at the law firm of Smith Anderson Blount Dorsett Mitchell & Jernigan, where he focused on complex litigation. Prior to joining Smith Anderson, Mr. Martin practiced with the law firm of Covington & Burling in Washington, D.C. He received his B.S., with honors and highest distinction, from the University of North Carolina and his J.D., with high honors, from the University of North Carolina School of Law, where he served as Editor in Chief of the North Carolina Law Review.
If confirmed, R. Andrew Murray of North Carolina will serve as the United States Attorney for the Western District of North Carolina. Mr. Murray is currently the elected District Attorney of Mecklenburg County and has served in this position since 2011. He previously worked as an Assistant District Attorney in Mecklenburg County, prosecuting a variety of crimes, and as a criminal defense attorney and managing partner in a local firm. Mr. Murray enlisted in the United States Coast Guard in 1980 and was later commissioned as an officer in the Coast Guard Reserve until 2016, when he retired as a Captain after 35 years of service. He received his B.A., magna cum laude, from the University of North Carolina at Charlotte, and his J.D. from the University of North Carolina School of Law.
If confirmed, Michael B. Stuart of West Virginia will serve as the United States Attorney for the Southern District of West Virginia. Mr. Stuart is currently a member of the law firm of Steptoe & Johnson PLLC and serves as co-chair of the firm's corporate services and tax practice group. In 2014, Mr. Stuart chaired the West Virginia Presidential Debate Commission. From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Stuart served as chairman of the West Virginia Republican Party. Mr. Stuart received his undergraduate degree from West Virginia University and his J.D. from the Boston University School of Law.
  