
    (SOUTH CAROLINA, September 10, 2019) — Today, Democratic presidential candidate Tom Steyer was endorsed by former South Carolina State Rep and founder of the ReGenesis Project, Harold Mitchell.
"After meeting with all the primary candidates, Tom Steyer is the best candidate that can address climate and environmental justice issues that I have seen being a frontline activist for environmental justice. It is going to take bold action to heal our vulnerable communities. ReGenesis has provided housing, healthcare, and economic development for the community and these are the traits that Tom Steyer's track record has demonstrated," said Mitchell. "Tom is already doing the work that others are talking about. I believe Tom's presidency will address the systematic environmental injustices to transform vulnerable communities from surviving to thriving. He is the only authentic candidate left who has a track record of solutions that is ready for the climate and environmental justice battle. That is why I am on his team one hundred percent."
"Mitchell is one of the foremost leaders in environmental justice in South Carolina. He is a tireless servant in the community and I am proud to have earned his support," said Steyer. "I look forward to working alongside Mr. Mitchell and speaking with voters in their communities about taking our democracy back from corporate interests and restoring the power back to the American people."
Mitchell's endorsement of Tom Steyer is one of the foremost coveted and sought after endorsements to score in the Palmetto State. Steyer and Mitchell joined each other to make the formal announcement at the CC Woodson Community Center in Spartanburg,SC.
Prior to stepping down due to health issues in 2017, Mitchell held the House District 31 seat for 13 years and is a trusted voice in the community. Since 1997, the former State Representative has been committed to advocating for vulnerable communities that have been negatively impacted by environmental racism. Through the award-winning ReGenesis Project, Mitchell has been the driving force behind the cleanup of contaminated and abandoned properties, community revitalization, and bridging the gap in economic development in underserved communities.
  