
    Today, Community Change Voters, a political action committee devoted to engaging and mobilizing low-income voters and low-income voters of color to participate in the democratic process, working to expand the electorate by enabling infrequent voters, endorsed Joe Biden and Kamala Harris for President and Vice President of the United States.
The endorsement came in the form of a video posted to YouTube, featuring Community Change Action President Lorella Praeli and Vice President Dorian Warren, along with grassroots leaders from across the country, including Angelica Salas of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA) Action Fund in California, Danielle Atkinson of Mothering Justice Action Fund in Michigan, and Maria Alegria Rodriguez of FLIC Votes in Florida.
 Watch the full video HERE. 
Citing the "four years of the hate, racism and economic misery that has torn the nation" under the Trump Administration, Community Change Voters sees the Biden-Harris ticket as a means to restoring the American values of inclusivity and prosperity, while building the nation back from the economic disaster caused by Trump's failed response to the COVID-19 pandemic.
Community Change Voters issued the following press release:
Community Change Voters Endorses Joe Biden and Kamala Harris
Biden-Harris fighting for an inclusive and prosperous America
The 2020 Presidential election is the most important electoral fight in a generation, one that can set the course for a vision of America where we can all thrive. As such, Community Change Voters unreservedly endorses Joe Biden and Kamala Harris as the leaders with the boldest, most progressive aspiration for America. We believe the Biden-Harris ticket will restore the values of a prosperous and inclusive America after four years of the hate, racism and economic misery that has torn the nation apart under Trump and Trumpism.
Now, more than ever, we need leaders who will bring us together. Biden and Harris are best suited to not only rebuild the nation from the COVID-19 pandemic and economic catastrophe, but to re-imagine and remake our economy to address structural inequities that hold millions back from fulfilling their potential to thrive. Biden has pledged aggressive action on immigration reform, racial justice and child care--all issues critical to Black, brown and immigrant Communities.
Joining in the video endorsement were Lorella Praeli, president of Community Change Action, Dorian Warren, vice-president of Community Change Action, and several key grassroots leaders from across the country, including Angelica Salas of the Coalition for Humane Immigrant Rights (CHIRLA) Action Fund in California, Danielle Atkinson of Mothering Justice Action Fund in Michigan and Maria Alegria Rodriguez of FLIC Votes in Florida.
The last four years show that people of color and women are standing together to create movements that confront the divisiveness of Trumpism. Community Change Voters, Community Change Action and our grassroots partners nationwide are mobilizing more than five million Black, Latinx, immigrant and young and women voters in eight key battleground states (Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada and Georgia). Along with national and state partners, Community Change Action has committed $35 million to mobilize voters of color, young people and women across 15 states. These voters are part of a multi-racial coalition that is more progressive, more committed to racial and economic justice and ready to set a mandate for change in America. Joe Biden and Kamala Harris are the leaders to make the vision of an inclusive America a reality.
  