
    
  After a weekend of Heidi Cruz barnstorming the state, Cruz for President continues to build its team

HOUSTON, Texas — Today U.S. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, announced the hiring of three new field staffers in New Hampshire. The Cruz Campaign is looking forward to expanding its organization in the state after the Senator's wife, Heidi Cruz, campaigned across the Granite State with stops in Barnstead, Nashua, Pelham, Rochester, New Hampton and Keene.
All three staffers will help engage courageous conservatives across New Hampshire through serving in Field Director roles:
Representative Josh Moore: Representative Moore lives in Merrimack and was elected as freshman State Representative in 2014. Moore serves on the House Education Committee and has been active in the state's conservative movement for three years. Moore will serve as a Field Director and as the Faith-Based Outreach Director.
Michelle Trant: Trant lives in Londonderry with her husband Anthony and two children Julia and Nicholas. Trant had a small business before focusing on raising her family and is working on her first campaign, inspired by Senator Cruz's message.
Christian Andzel: Andzel is a graduate of the University at Buffalo where he created and led a successful grassroots conservative student club and established the first student-government recognized pro-life club. He volunteered for numerous campaigns and advocated alongside issue specific organizations throughout New York State. Andzel had been making an eight hour commute from Buffalo, NY to Manchester to volunteer for Senator Cruz prior to officially joining the team.
Senator Cruz said, "I'd like to welcome Christian, Josh, and Michelle to the team. I have had a chance to meet all three of them and I look forward to their help in engaging with New Hampshire voters and spreading our conservative message across the Granite State."
The three additional hires will join previously announced State Director Ethan Zorfas, Deputy Director Zach Carrier and State Co-Chairs Former Speaker Bill O'Brien, Former U.S. Senator Bob Smith and Executive Councilor David Wheeler in guiding Cruz for President's New Hampshire effort.
  