
    FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
CONTACT: Romney Press Shop (857) 288-6390
Boston, MA – Today, Governor Romney announced that former Miami-Dade School Board member Frank Bola?os, former Broward County Commissioner Ed Kennedy and Coral Springs Commissioner Ted Mena have endorsed his candidacy for President of the United States.
"I am pleased to welcome these South Florida leaders to our team in the Sunshine State," said Governor Romney. "They will play an important role in our organizational efforts as we reach out to Florida voters across the state, sharing our optimistic vision for the future of America."
These individuals join a strong, growing team in South Florida led by Al Cardenas, former Chairman of the Republican Party of Florida and a Co-Chair of the Romney for President Florida Steering Committee, and State Representative Anitere Flores, a Co-Chair of the Romney for President Florida Steering Committee. Previously announced South Florida leadership includes Miami-Dade County Commission Chairman Bruno Barreiro, former Broward County Property Appraiser Rocky Rodriguez, City of Miramar Commissioner Troy Samuels and Miami-Dade County Romney for President Chairwomen Theresa Ashkar and Andreina Figueroa.
"With their impressive records of public service and conservative activism in their communities, these gentlemen bring a wealth of experience to Governor Romney's campaign in Florida," said Chairman Cardenas. "We look forward to working together to bring real change to Washington through Governor Romney's strong, new leadership."
Background On Former Miami-Dade School Board Member Frank Bolanos:
Frank Bola?os Is A Former Miami-Dade School Board Chairman And Former Republican Candidate For State Senate. Former Chairman Bola?os served as a school board member and Chairman of the school system from 2001 to 2006. Prior to his appointment to the School Board, Bola?os served as a Councilman of the Doral Community Council. Bola?os has held executive positions with several large public and private companies; currently, he is with AT&T where he is responsible for Hispanic marketing activities. Bola?os has been involved in several organizations, including the Latin Chamber of Commerce, Dade Education Fund, Stars Hope Scholarship Program, Diabetes Foundation, Arthritis Foundation, Junta Patri?tica Cubana, Municipios de Cuba en el Exilio, Asociacion Interamericana de Hombres de Empresa (AIHE), United Way of Miami-Dade County, New World School of Arts and Florida International University,
Background On Former Broward County Commissioner Ed Kennedy:
Ed Kennedy Is A Republican State Committeeman And A Former Broward County Commissioner. Kennedy has also served as Broward County Clerk of the Courts and a Lauderdale-By-The-Sea City Commissioner. He is one of the two highest ranking Republicans in the County and a respected community leader with more than 35 years of conservative activism in South Florida.
Background On Coral Springs Commissioner Ted Mena:
Ted Mena Is A City Of Coral Springs Commissioner. Commissioner Mena was elected as a city commissioner in 2004. Mena has been a small business owner in South Florida for more than 30 years. He is an active member of the community with service in several organizations. He is also a member of the Intergovernmental Relations Committee for the Florida League of Cities, the Broward County Human Rights Council and the Metropolitan Planning Organization.
  