
    Pool Reports by Emily Goodin, Daily Mail 



Sent:
Reports:




September 11, 202316:35

FLOTUS pool report #1 - Wreath laying at Pentagon
FLOTUS arrived at the National 9/11 Pentagon Memorial at 4:20 pm.
FLOTUS, wearing a black dress, was greeted by Secretary Lloyd Austin, Joint Chief Chairman Mark Milley and Mrs. Holly Anne Milley. She hugged Austin.
She - along with the others - laid a wreath at the memorial that pays tribute to the 184 people who died at the Pentagon and on America Airlines Flight 77.
The wreath has red, white and blue flowers with a red, white and blue ribbon. It stood at the top of the memorial with the benches behind it.
FLOTUS, Austin and the Milleys stood before the wreath for a moment. FLOTUS walked up to touch the wreath and then folded her hands in prayer.
She stepped back to join the others. Then a lone trumpet played Taps. FLOTUS had her hand on her heart. Austin and Milley saluted.
After Taps concluded FLOTUS asked the others to join her in greeting the about 80 people who were present to watch the wreath laying. They are are members of the general public as the memorial reopened to the public at 2 pm today.
She spoke briefly to the crowd but pool could not make out what was said. She then went down the rope line to shake hands.
She hugged Austin and the Milleys goodbye.
Note: Pool preset so it did not motorcade over to the Pentagon with FLOTUS. Pool is joining motorcade for her next stop, where she will swear in the new National archivist.
At 4:33 the motorcade is rolling.
REPORTABLE BACKGROUND FROM THE OFFICE OF THE FIRST LADY
On Monday, September 11th, at 4:20 PM ET, the First Lady will lay a wreath at the National 9/11 Pentagon Memorial in Arlington, Virginia to honor the lives lost on September 11th.
Dr. Biden will be joined by:

Secretary of Defense Lloyd J. Austin III
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Army General Mark A. Milley
Mrs. Hollyanne Milley, Spouse of General Milley

At 5:00 PM ET, the First Lady will deliver remarks at the National Archivist Swearing-In Ceremony at the National Archives Museum in Washington, DC. This ceremony will feature the swearing-in of the 11th Archivist of the United States, Dr. Colleen Shogan, the first woman ever appointed to be National Archivist.
Speaking program:

Governor James J. Blanchard, Chair and President, National Archives Foundation
First Lady Jill Biden
Chief Justice John Roberts (Swearing-In)
Dr. Colleen Shogan, Archivist of the United States

From the Pentagon Memorial's website https://pentagonmemorial.org/Each Memorial Unit is a cantilevered bench, a lighted pool of flowing water, and a permanent tribute, by name, to each victim, in one single element. Each memorial bench is made of stainless steel and inlaid with smooth granite. Each Memorial Unit contains a pool of water, reflecting light in the evenings onto the bench and surrounding gravel field.Each Memorial Unit is also specifically positioned in the Memorial to distinguish victims who were in the Pentagon from those who were on board American Airlines Flight 77. At the 125 Memorial Units honoring the victims of the Pentagon, visitors see the victim's name and the Pentagon in the same view. At the Memorial Units honoring the 59 lives lost on Flight 77, the visitor sees the victim's name and the direction of the plane's approach in the same view.Victims from the same family are linked by a plaque at the end of the pool of water, which lists their family members who also died in the attack, forever binding the family together.


September 11, 202317:40

FLOTUS pool report #2 - Archivist swearing in
The motorcade arrived at the National Archives at 4:40 pm. Pool did not see FLOTUS exit.
FLOTUS is giving remarks at the swearing-in of the 11th Archivist of the United States, Dr. Colleen Shogan, the first woman ever appointed to be National Archivist.
Shogan was appointed by President Biden and confirmed by the Senate.
FLOTUS joined Shogan, Chief Justice John Roberts and others on stage at 5 pm. She has changed into a blue dress.
She began her remarks with a tribute to September 11.
"22 years ago today, the horror of 9/11 changed us all in some way. We must always remember those lost that day and in the aftermath. And we will keep their families, always in our hearts. We stand with them today and every day."
When FLOTUS noted the National Archives has been led by men since it was founded nearly 100 years ago, but not anymore, the crowd burst into applause.
SCOTUS Chief Justice John Roberts swore Shogan into office. The ceremony took place in the main room of the Archives where the Constitution and Declaration of Independence are housed. On the walls are murals depicting these events.
Shogan, in her remarks, noted her historic role. She pointed to the white suit she was wearing: "I'm wearing white today to recognize those who made it possible for me to stand here today," she said. "The suffragettes didn't sign the Declaration of Independence or the Constitution so they are not on the murals behind me. But their contribution to the vitality of our democracy is no less meaningful."
Ceremony concluded at 5:28 pm and motorcade was rolling back at to White House at 5:34 pm.
Motorcade reached the White House one minute later at 5:35 pm. Motorcade arrived on East Executive Drive and FLOTUS went into EEOB.
That's a wrap from your pool.
From the East Wing, FLOTUS remarks as prepared for delivery:
Thank you, Governor Blanchard. And thank you for your dedication to the National Archives.
Senator Capito, you were a champion for Dr. Shogan in the Senate. Thank you for everything you did to make this moment possible.
Twenty-two years ago today, the horror of 9/11 changed us all in some way. We must always remember those lost that day and in the aftermath. And we will keep their families always in our hearts. We stand with them today, and every day.
The history of a democracy belongs to its people, and we must preserve it with care for future generations.
As far back as the Constitutional Convention, our leaders recognized the power of our founding documents and the importance of keeping them safe and accessible.
This experiment in democracy hinged on the people, and their ability to claim their rights and hold their elected officials accountable. That power could only be made real with access to history, unfiltered and uncensored.
So, in the 250 years since, we have collected these records, first in the hands of George Washington, later at the Department of State, and now in the National Archives.
Each one is a snapshot in time tracing the history of a young republic – our republic – from its nascent beginnings to who we are today – the greatest, most powerful country on this planet.
The Constitution and the Declaration of Independence. The Louisiana Purchase and Emancipation Proclamation. The 13th and 19thAmendments. Harriet Tubman's Civil War pension claims. Thomas Edison's lightbulb patent.
A letter Annie Oakley sent to President McKinley in 1898 volunteering the services of 50 "lady sharpshooters" for the Spanish-American War. The transfer of power between 46 presidents.
Each of these pieces of paper tells a story – the story of a country and its people, zigging and zagging through history, imperfectly marching toward a more perfect union.
Conversely, sometimes that story is a dark one. Manifests of slave ships. President Roosevelt's Executive Order on Japanese internment. The Supreme Court's Dred Scott decision.
It's these stories we must learn the most from. It's these we must study, for past is prologue, as one of the statues flanking this building proclaims.
As an educator I know this well, that our present and our future are inextricably linked to our past – and that we must learn from that past or be bound to repeat it.
That's why, as First Lady, I've been so committed to upholding these sacred institutions, so they may continue to serve the American people and teach the next generation about our shared heritage.
These National Archives have captured our complicated story for nearly 100 years.And for that entire period, the Archives have been led by men.
Today, however, I'm so honored to be part of the ceremony to swear-in the first woman ever to be appointed Archivist of the United States.
The history we preserve, the stories we elevate, the voices we amplify are shaped by the person at the helm of this institution.
These stories are all of our stories – men and women, of all backgrounds, ages, and creeds, what we choose to preserve, and whose voices we deem worthy of placing in our national memory.
That's why this milestone – the first woman head of the National Archives and Records Administration – is so momentous.
Dr. Shogan, congratulations on becoming the 11thArchivist of the United States.
You're immensely qualified with a sterling record of service, a clear commitment to preserving our nation's unique history, and a deep respect for this country's founding principles.
I can't wait for the next generation of American stories that will be housed within these walls, under your leadership.
Thank you.




  