
    WASHINGTON – Today, President Barack Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key administration posts:

Paul Martin, Inspector General, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Mark R. Rosekind, Member, National Transportation Safety Board
Christine H. Fox, Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, Department of Defense 

President Obama said, "These individuals' extensive expertise and experience will make them important assets to my administration. I look forward to working with them in the coming months and years."
President Obama announced his intent to nominate the following individuals today:
Paul Martin, Nominee for Inspector General, National Aeronautics and Space Administration
Since 2003, Paul Martin has been the Deputy Inspector General at the Department of Justice. From 2001 to 2003, Martin served as the Counselor to the Inspector General, and previously served as Special Counsel to the Inspector General from 1998 to 2001. Before joining DOJ's Inspector General's office, he spent 13 years at the U.S. Sentencing Commission, originally as a Special Assistant to the Staff Director when the Commission was formed in 1985, and later becoming the Communications Director and Deputy Staff Director. Martin began his career as an investigative reporter with The Greenville News in Greenville, South Carolina. He holds a B.A. in Journalism from Pennsylvania State University and a J.D. from Georgetown University School of Law, where he obtained his degree while working for the Sentencing Commission.
Mark R. Rosekind, Nominee for Member, National Transportation Safety Board
Dr. Mark R. Rosekind is internationally recognized for translating the complex science on sleep, circadian factors, and human fatigue into practical strategies that improve safety, performance, and health in our 24/7 global society. He is currently the President and Chief Scientist of Alertness Solutions, a scientific consulting firm. Previously, he directed the NASA Fatigue Countermeasures Program in the Human Factors Division at NASA Ames Research Center and also served as Chief of the Aviation Operations Branch (human factors activities) in the NASA Ames Flight Management and Human Factors Division. Prior to joining NASA, he was the Director of the Center for Human Sleep Research, a component program of the Stanford University Sleep Disorders and Research Center. Over the course of his career, Dr. Rosekind has conducted research and implemented programs in diverse work settings, including all transportation modes, healthcare, public safety, energy, military groups, and other 24/7 operational environments. Dr. Rosekind graduated from Stanford University with Honors, obtained his Ph.D. at Yale University, and completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the Brown University Medical School.
Christine H. Fox, Nominee for Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, Department of Defense Christine H. Fox is president of the Center for Naval Analyses, the Department of the Navy's federally funded research and development center. Fox has nearly three decades of experience as an analyst and research manager focusing on defense issues, particularly operations. She was responsible for CNA's analysis of the operations in Bosnia and Kosovo in the 1990s, the operation in Afghanistan in response to the September 11 attacks, and the operation in Iraq in early 2003. As president, Fox is responsible for overseeing CNA's work on operations, cost and acquisition, manpower, readiness, and technology issues. Prior to her appointment as president, Fox was vice president and director of CNA's Operations Evaluation Group, where she was responsible for about 45 field representatives--who provide analytical support for military commands around the world--and 40 Washington-based analysts who also conduct defense operations analysis. In 2003, then-NASA Administrator Sean O'Keefe appointed Ms. Fox to NASA's Stafford-Covey Return to Flight Task Group to certify that NASA had met the recommendations made by the Columbia Accident Investigation Board. Fox is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and serves on the Advisory Board of the Applied Physics Laboratory, University of Washington. She holds an M.S. in Applied Mathematics from George Mason University and a B.S. in Mathematics, also from George Mason.
  