
    
  By the President of the United States of America
  A Proclamation

For nearly 6 decades, Americans have observed Child Health Day in reaffirmation of our private and public national commitment to the good health of every child. During this year's observance, we should resolve to redouble our efforts to ensure that all aspects of health services needed by mothers, babies, and older children are properly identified, provided, and used, when and where needed. Appropriate perinatal, medical, nutritional, and educational services should be made available in accordance with family needs, including specialized services for those at risk for poor pregnancy outcomes such as low birth weight, delivery complications, or developmental problems.
Babies and older children with special health needs such as severe chronic illnesses, birth impairments, and related conditions often require early intervention and highly specialized care. A family-centered, comprehensive program of medical, educational, and social services in the community and in the home may also be needed.
It is vital that approaches such as these be fostered throughout our country. Preventing low birth weights and infant mortality from other causes; reducing disability levels; and increasing the feasibility of home care in cases of severe chronic illness are objectives of high priority. Health professionals and staff members of State and local social service agencies can improve the effectiveness of health care delivery as they cooperate fully in these approaches.
Federal health services, research, and financing agencies continue to focus upon support of such endeavors. For instance, the recently created Bureau of Maternal and Child Health and Resource Development has as a central element of its mission the promotion of case-managed perinatal care as well as care for babies and older children who have special health care needs. Real progress can be made through the combination of State and local action and cooperation and Federal encouragement and support.
Now, Therefore, I, Ronald Reagan, President of the United States of America, pursuant to a joint resolution approved on May 18, 1928, as amended (36 U.S.C. 143), do hereby proclaim Monday, October 5, 1987, as Child Health Day.
In Witness Whereof I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of September, in the year of our Lord nineteen hundred and eighty-seven, and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and twelfth.

RONALD REAGAN
  