
    ARLINGTON, VA -- Today, McCain-Palin 2008 released its latest radio ad, entitled "Stem Cell Response." The ad is in response to Barack Obama's "false" and "misleading" radio ad on stem cell research. John McCain is proud to have a record of supporting stem cell research and will continue to fight for this vital research as President. 
LISTEN TO THE AD HERE: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fUG_5bQkOyQ 
Script For "Stem Cell Response" (Radio :60) 
ANNCR: Barack Obama and his Congressional allies' stem cell attacks are simply not true.
Leading news organizations call their attacks "misleading." "Out of bounds." "Manhandling the truth." "Wrong."
The truth?
John McCain and his Congressional allies fought FOR stem cell research.
They stood up and said stem cell research was too important for you and your family.
Stem cell research will help unlock the mystery of cancer, diabetes and heart disease. It will allow scientists to explore treatment for Parkinson's and Alzheimer's.
Stem cell research will help free families from the fear and devastation of illness.
Change is coming. McCain-Palin and Congressional allies.
The leadership and experience to change Washington and improve your health.
Paid for by McCain-Palin 2008 and the Republican National Committee. 
JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message. 
AD FACTS: Script For "Stem Cell Response" (Radio :60) 
ANNCR: Barack Obama and his Congressional allies' stem cell attacks are simply not true. Leading news organizations call their attacks "misleading." "Out of bounds." "Manhandling the truth." "Wrong." 
ABC News: Barack Obama's Stem Cell Ad Is "Misleading." "Thus, when Obama's radio ad says, 'John McCain has stood in the way ... he's opposed stem cell research,' it is misleading voters by not pointing out that McCain changed his mind on the issue seven years ago and currently supports stem cell research. The ad cleverly uses the word 'has' to imply that McCain still opposes the research -- which is not true." (Jake Tapper, "From the Fact Check Desk: Stem Cell Selling," ABC News' "Political Punch" Blog, http://blogs.abcnews.com , Posted 9/23/08) 
McClatchy:"Out Of Bounds! Obama Falsely Accuses McCain Of Blocking Stem-Cell Research" (Steven Thomma, "Out Of Bounds! Obama Falsely Accuses McCain Of Blocking Stem-Cell Research," McClatchy Newspapers, 9/24/08) 
McClatchy:Barack Obama Is "Manhandling The Truth" In His Stem Cell Ad. "Penalty: Set Obama's credibility back 15 yards for manhandling the truth." (Steven Thomma, "Out Of Bounds! Obama Falsely Accuses McCain Of Blocking Stem-Cell Research," McClatchy Newspapers, 9/24/08) 
McClatchy: Barack Obama's Stem Cell Ad Is "Wrong." "The ad then hits home with an emotionally charged appeal from a woman who's identified as the mother of a child with diabetes. 'For Maddy and millions of others, stem-cell research can unlock cures,' the woman says in the ad. 'Barack Obama understands that. But John McCain just doesn't.' Why that's wrong: McCain doesn't oppose stem-cell research. He supports it." (Steven Thomma, "Out Of Bounds! Obama Falsely Accuses McCain Of Blocking Stem-Cell Research," McClatchy Newspapers, 9/24/08) 
PolitiFact: "We Rate The Obama Ad False." "And McCain has backed up his words with his vote twice in recent years, even when it meant challenging President Bush and a majority of his fellow Senate Republicans. That's not standing in the way of, or opposing, stem cell research. We rate the Obama ad False." ("McCain 'Has Opposed Stem Cell Research,'" PolitiFact.com, http://politifact.com/truth-o-meter/statements/737/, 9/16/08) 
ANNCR: The truth? John McCain and his Congressional allies fought FOR stem cell research. They stood up and said stem cell research was too important for you and your family. Stem cell research will help unlock the mystery of cancer, diabetes and heart disease. It will allow scientists to explore treatment for Parkinson's and Alzheimer's. Stem cell research will help free families from the fear and devastation of illness. Change is coming. McCain-Palin and Congressional allies. The leadership and experience to change Washington and improve your health. Paid for by McCain-Palin 2008 and the Republican National Committee. JOHN MCCAIN: I'm John McCain and I approve this message. 
John McCain Supports Federal Funding For Stem Cell Research. "McCain joined Giuliani in parting company with the others on stem cell research. Acknowledging the presence of Nancy Reagan, who has campaigned for federal support for such research, McCain said: 'This is a tough issue for those of us in the pro-life community. I would remind you that these stem cells are either going to be discarded or perpetually frozen. We need to do what we can to relieve human suffering. It's a tough issue. I support federal funding.'" (Dan Balz and Michael D. Shear, "GOP Field United On War, Divided On Social Issues," The Washington Post, 5/4/07) 
John McCain Voted For Federal Funding For Stem Cell Research With 19 Other Republicans. "Recently McCain was among seven Republican senators who voted against a constitutional amendment banning gay marriage and was among 19 who voted for federal funding for embryonic stem cell research, both of which put him at odds with the president." (Glenn Frankel, "The McCain Makeover," The Washington Post, 8/27/06) 
In 2004, John McCain With Numerous Other Senators Signed A Letter To President Bush Requesting That He Lift Restrictions On Stem Cell Research. "In 2004, he was one of 14 Republicans who signed a letter to Bush urging him to lift restrictions on the research, which they said had the potential 'to treat and better understand deadly and disabling diseases and conditions that affect more than 100 million Americans, such as cancer, heart disease, diabetes, Parkinson's, Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, spinal cord injury and many others.'"(Steven Thomma, "Out Of Bounds! Obama Falsely Accuses McCain Of Blocking Stem-Cell Research," McClatchy Newspapers, 9/24/08)
  