
    Pool Reports by Hailey Fuchs, Politico 



Sent:
Reports:




September 20, 202110:35

Supplemental Pool Report #1
Good morning from sunny Rehoboth Beach. Pool is at a park near POTUS' home, waiting for the President to arrive for his departure.



September 20, 202111:07

Supplemental Pool Report #2 
POTUS departed from Rehoboth Beach at 11:06 am in Marine One. The press was positioned far away, and he did not take questions.
From the White House:
Traveling to the White House with the President:
Annie Tomasini, Director of Oval Office OperationsRussell Travers, Senior Deputy Homeland Security AdvisorStephen Goepfert, Personal Aide to the President




 
Pool Reports below by Scott Bixby, The Daily Beast 



Sent:
Reports:




September 20, 202111:31

White House In-Town Pool Report #1 — waiting for call to gather 
Good morning on this bright, only-slightly-muggy Monday at the White House, where your pooler has been tested and is currently scouting for spotted lanternflies ahead of President Biden's noon arrival from Rehoboth Beach, where he spent the weekend.
Today's in-town schedule is a quick turnaround for the president, who will depart from the White House at 3.55 p.m. Eastern en route to New York for the United Nations General Assembly (or UNGA, pronounced "UN-guh" or "Yoo-Enn-Jee-Ay" depending on how much of a swamp creature you are).
Today's press briefing with Jen will be at one p.m. Eastern, and officials have also passed along that the White House will hold a virtual event at noon  marking the ten-year anniversary of the end of the military's "Don't Ask, Don't Tell" policy barring enlistment of openly LGBTQ people in the military. (Or, to be wonky, the ten-year anniversary of the Pentagon's certification that the U.S. military was ready to officially end the policy — President Barack Obama signed repeal legislation around nine months earlier.)
The event,  which will be livestreamed here, will be moderated by Deputy Assistant to the President and Deputy Director of Presidential Personnel Gautam Raghavan.
The event's participants:
– Undersecretary of the Air Force Gina Ortiz Jones
– Assistant Secretary of Defense for Readiness Shawn Skelly
– Secretarial Advisor on Equity and Deputy Director for Energy Justice at the Department of Energy Shalanda Baker
– Assistant Secretary in the Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs at the Department of Veterans Affairs Kayla Williams
See you on the South Lawn,



September 20, 202111:58

White House In-Town Pool Report #2 — Marine One arrival 
Marine One touched down on the South Lawn at 11.53 a.m. Eastern. President Biden waved to assembled reporters but did not respond to shouted questions about the new rules on COVID vaccinations for international travelers or a potential meeting with the president of France. He entered the White House at 11.56 a.m. Eastern.
Visible in the distance were the more than 670,000 white flags on the National Mall, each one marking an American death from the coronavirus pandemic.



September 20, 202113:07

White House In-Town Pool Report #3 — two-minute warning for the briefing 
Two minutes until the briefing,  which can be viewed here.



September 20, 202113:10

White House In-Town Pool Report #4 — briefing begins 
The briefing has begun.



September 20, 202114:00

White House In-Town Pool Report #5 — press briefing ends
The press briefing has concluded.



September 20, 202115:45

White House In-Town Pool Report #6 — gathering for Marine One departure
Your pooler (and many other reporters) are gathering ahead of President Biden's departure en route to New York.



September 20, 202115:57

White House In-Town Pool Report #7 — gathering for Marine One departure
Marine One lifted off the South Lawn at 3.56 p.m. Eastern.
President Biden, in a repeat of his Marine One landing this morning, amiably waved to the assembled reporters before boarding but did not respond to shouted questions about tensions with France and the surprisingly high sales prices of his son's abstract figurative paintings.



September 20, 202116:00

White House In-Town Pool Report #8 — in-town lid 
The White House called an (informal, in-town, "you can go home now") lid at 3.58 p.m.
Your pooler, after three helicopter arrivals/departures in 46 percent humidity, now departs in search of a hat to cover his increasingly disobedient hair.
Until next time,



September 20, 202116:23

White House In-Town Pool Report #8.5 — list of those traveling with POTUS to JBA 
One more note from your in-town pooler, whose last email should have been a "hand-off" instead of a "semi-lid" — the following are traveling with President Biden on Marine One to JBA:
– Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the President– Bruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of Staff– Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security Advisor– Carlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives– Stephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the President




 
Pool Reports below by Joey Garrison, USA Today 



Sent:
Reports:




September 20, 202116:17

White House out-of-town pool report #1
I will be your out-of-town pool reporter for President Biden's trip to the United Nations General Assembly in New York.
President Biden exited Marine One at 4:08 p.m EST and boarded Air Force One at Andrews Air Force Base. at 4:09 p.m EST. He was greeted by Colonel William (Chris) McDonald, Vice Commander, 89th Air Wing.
Biden did not respond to questions shouted by the pool nor did he come over to talk to press. He saluted two service members at the bottom of AF1 steps, jogged up a few of the steps and then waved at the top before entering.
We're rolling. Wheels up shortly.
From the WH:
Traveling with the President to New York:Mike Donilon, Assistant to the President & Senior Advisor to the PresidentBruce Reed, Assistant to the President & Deputy Chief of StaffJen Psaki, Assistant to the President & Press SecretaryJake Sullivan, Assistant to the President & National Security AdvisorTravis Dredd, Special Assistant to the President & Trip DirectorStephen Goepfert, Special Assistant to the President & Personal Aide to the PresidentMeghan Hays, Special Assistant to the President & Director of Message PlanningCarlyn Reichel, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Speechwriting & Strategic Initiatives, NSCCurtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President & Senior Director for Multilateral Affairs, NSCAshley Williams, Special Assistant to the President & Deputy Director of Oval Office Operations



September 20, 202117:03

White House out-of-town pool report #2 
Air Force One landed at JFK airport at 5 p.m ET following an uneventful flight. There were no visitors to the press cabin.



September 20, 202117:21

White House out-of-town pool report #3 
Upon arrival at John F. Kennedy International Airport, President Biden was greeted by New York Gov. Kathy Hochul, New York Mayor Bill de Blasio and Chirlane McCray, spouse of Mayor de Blasio.
The four embraced and talked for about six minutes.



September 20, 202117:30

White House out-of-town pool report #4 
The pool departed Osprey from JFK airport at 5:25 p.m. Biden departed Marine One.



September 20, 202117:46

White House out-of-town pool report #5 
On my previous report, I intended to say Biden departed "via" Marine One from JFK.
Marine One and the pool, the latter traveling in Osprey, landed in Manhattan at 5:34 pm ET. The motorcade left at 5:44 pm.
Biden is scheduled to take part in a bilateral meeting with UN Secretary-General António Guterres 6:30 pm ET.



September 20, 202118:12

White House out-of-town pool report #6 
President Biden and the motorcade pulled up to the Intercontinental Barclay hotel in Manhattan at 5:58 pm after the pool landed in the Osprey at 5:34 pm.
Notably, when Marine One landed shortly after the Osprey, we were rushed to three pool vans before we could see Biden exit Marine One.
It was an uneventful drive through Manhattan with multiple NYPD police vehicles escorting the motorcade. NYPD boats sped alongside on the East River, keeping pass with the motorcade.
Thousands of spectators lined fencing along the route with many taking photos on their cell phones of the motorcade as we drove up.
Your pooler did not witness Biden leaving the motorcade. The pool is now in a conference room of the Intercontinental Hotel waiting for Biden's bilateral meeting to begin.



September 20, 202119:16

White House out-of-town pool report #7 
President Biden and António Guterres, secretary general of the United Nations, addressed reporters for about five minutes beginning at 6:42 p.m. ET in a conference room in the InterContinental New York Barclay as they kicked off their bilateral meeting.
Biden thanked Guterres for his "continued leadership" during the pandemic and said the partnership between the UN and the U.S. is based on "common values and principle, and at this moment those bonds are more important than ever."
"America is back. We believe in the United Nations and its values," Biden said.
Biden said he went back and reread the UN charter, adding that every UN member has a responsibility to "uphold those fundamental commitments that we've all made."
"The vision of the United Nations has never been short in ambition, any more than our Constitution. Ambition matters. Today, governments must continue to work together in a system to build on international law to deliver equitable prosperity, peace and security for everyone. This is as vital and important today as it was 76 years ago. "
Biden said he's looking forward to delivering his speech at the UN General Assembly on Tuesday and said it would be a "great honor."
Guterres said he was "delighted" to meet Biden and that Biden has"clearly affirmed a strong commitment" to the UN.
Biden did not take any questions from reporters that were shouted his way as WH aides rushed reporters away.
From the WH
Participating in the President's bilateral meeting with United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres:
United States ManifestThe PresidentT.H. Antony Blinken, Secretary of StateT.H. Linda Thomas-Greenfield, Ambassador of the United States to the United NationsT.H. Jake Sullivan, Assistant to the President for National Security AffairsT.H. Erica Barks-Ruggles, Senior Bureau Official for International Organizations, U.S. Department of StateT.H. Curtis Ried, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Multilateral AffairsMr. Walter Miller, Director for Multilateral Affairs at the National Security Council
United Nations ManifestHis Excellency António Guterres, Secretary General of the United NationsMrs. Maria Luiza Viotti, Chef de CabinetMs. Rosemary DiCarlo, Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding AffairsMr. Martin Griffiths, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief CoordinatorMr. Miguel Graca, Special Assistant to the Secretary-GeneralMr. David Vennett, Princial Advisor to the Secretary-General



September 20, 202119:52

White House out-of-town pool report #8 lid
? Biden's bilateral meeting with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres ended at 7:43 pm ET. The White House called a lid at 7:51 pm ET.




 
Pool Reports below by Kéthévane Gorjestani, France 24 



Sent:
Reports:




September 20, 202117:34

Foreign pool report #1 
Hello all,
I'll be your foreign pooler for President's bilateral meetings today and tomorrow on the sidelines of the UNGA in New York.
Just checked in for the 1st bilateral with UN Secretary General Antonio Guterres which is scheduled for 6:30pm and waiting for the President to arrive.
It will be the first one-on-one sit-down between the 2 men.
Some quick background on Antonio Guterres. He's been Secretary General since January 2017. Before that served as United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees from June 2005 to December 2015. He was also Prime Minister of Portugal from 1995 to 2002.
In an interview with AP on Saturday, Guterrez urged the US and China to fix their "completely dysfunctional" relationship.
"We need to avoid at all cost a Cold War that would be different from the past one, and probably more dangerous and more difficult to manage."
Topics to be discussed per White House official include Afghanistan, Yemen, Covid & climate.



September 20, 202119:16

Foreign pool report #2 
The spray lasted roughly 5mn.
Antonio Guterres spoke after Joe Biden for about 1mn30.
He praised Biden for affirming the "strong commitment of the US to the UN and to multilateralism"
"The cooperation between the US & the UN is a fundamental pillar of the work of the UN. The US with its strong commitment to human rights, its strong commitment to peace & security around the world, its strong commitment to development, cooperation and now, with your leadership, a very strong commitment on climate change, the US represents a fundamental pillar of our activity. And I'd like to assure you Mr President that we want to deepen that cooperation."
Neither one responded to shouted questions.
Participants on the UN side (per White House)
United Nations ManifestHis Excellency António Guterres, Secretary General of the United NationsMrs. Maria Luiza Viotti, Chef de CabinetMs. Rosemary DiCarlo, Under-Secretary-General for Political and Peacebuilding AffairsMr. Martin Griffiths, Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief CoordinatorMr. Miguel Graca, Special Assistant to the Secretary-GeneralMr. David Vennett, Princial Advisor to the Secretary-General




  