
    Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism Lisa Monaco traveled to Sana'a, Yemen, on September 6 to underscore the United States' enduring support for President Hadi and the people of Yemen as they pursue peace, stability, and prosperity through the country's historic political transition and economic reform process. Ms. Monaco's trip is also an opportunity to reaffirm the strong partnership between the United States and Yemen to counter the shared threat from al-Qa'ida in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP). Her visit to Yemen was part of a broader visit to the region to consult with partners on shared security and counterterrorism challenges, including the terrorist threat posed by the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL). In addition to Yemen, she is consulting with counterparts in Saudi Arabia and Jordan.
In her meeting with President Hadi, Ms. Monaco commended the President for his continued leadership in implementing the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) initiative and economic reforms to improve the lives and meet the aspirations of all Yemenis. She emphasized that the United States will stand firmly behind the Yemeni government in confronting challenges to progress in the peaceful transition process. Ms. Monaco reiterated the United States' and United Nations Security Council's condemnation of the Houthis' provocative and destabilizing incitement and actions against Sana'a and praised President Hadi's ongoing efforts to find a sustainable resolution consistent with the GCC Initiative and National Dialogue.
The meetings also provided an opportunity to review the comprehensive bilateral partnership on security and economic issues. In meetings with Yemen's military and security leadership, Ms. Monaco discussed ongoing and future efforts to strengthen Yemen's counterterrorism capabilities. Finally, during a roundtable with senior economic officials, she discussed options to enhance U.S. and international support for Yemen's continued economic reform and development.
  