
    The following list does not include promotions of members of the Uniformed Services, nominations to the Service Academies, or nominations of Foreign Service officers.
Submitted September 26
Madeleine Korbel Albright, of the District of Columbia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Edward William Gnehn, Jr., of Georgia, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
David Elias Birenbaum, of the District of Columbia, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Karl Frederick Inderfurth, of North Carolina, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Victor Marrero, of New York, to be an Alternate Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Patrick J. Leahy, of Vermont, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Frank H. Murkowski, of Alaska, to be a Representative of the United States of America to the 49th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations.
Steven Scott Alm, of Hawaii, to be U.S. Attorney for the District of Hawaii for a term of 4 years, vice Daniel A. Bent, resigned.
Calton Windley Bland, of North Carolina, to be U.S. Marshal for the Eastern District of North Carolina for a term of 4 years, vice William I. Berryhill, Jr.
Michael D. Carrington, of Indiana, to be U.S. Marshal for the Northern District of Indiana for a term of 4 years, vice J. Jerome Perkins.
Robert Bradford English, of Missouri, to be U.S. Marshal for the Western District of Missouri for a term of 4 years, vice Larry J. Joiner.
James E. Hall, of Tennessee, to be Chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board for a term of 2 years, vice Carl W. Vogt, term expired.
John R. Murphy, of Alaska, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Alaska for a term of 4 years, vice John A. McKay.
Lori Esposito Murray, of Connecticut, to be an Assistant Director of the U.S. Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, vice Michael Lorne Moodie, resigned.
J. Timothy O'Neill, of Virginia, to be a Director of the Federal Housing Finance Board for the remainder of the term expiring February 27, 1997, vice Marilyn R. Seymann, resigned.
John Edward Rouille, of Vermont, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Vermont for the term of 4 years, vice Christian J. Hansen.
Herbert M. Rutherford III, of the District of Columbia, to be U.S. Marshal for the District of Columbia for the term of 4 years (reappointment).
Submitted September 28
Richard P. Conaboy, of Pennsylvania, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 1999, vice William H. Wilkins, Jr., term expired.
Richard P. Conaboy, of Pennsylvania, to be Chairman of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, vice William W. Wilkins, Jr.
Deanell Reece Tacha, of Kansas, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 1997, vice George E. MacKinnon, term expired.
Philip C. Wilcox, Jr., of Maryland, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of Minister-Counselor, for the rank of Ambassador during his tenure of service as Coordinator for Counter Terrorism.
Wayne Anthony Budd, of Massachusetts, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 1999, vice Ilene H. Nagel, resigned.
Michael Goldsmith, of Utah, to be a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission for a term expiring October 31, 1997, vice Helen G. Corrothers, term expired.
Submitted September 30
James H. Atkins, of Arkansas, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring September 25, 1996, vice Roger W. Mehle, resigned.
Jay C. Ehle, of Ohio, to be a member of the Advisory Board of the Saint Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation, vice Conrad Fredin.
Steve M. Hays, of Tennessee, to be a member of the Board of Directors of the National Institute of Building Sciences for a term expiring September 7, 1997, vice Dianne E. Ingels, term expired.
Charles Hummel, of Delaware, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1994, vice Marilyn Logsdon Mennello, term expired.
Charles Hummel, of Delaware, to be a member of the National Museum Services Board for a term expiring December 6, 1999 (reappointment).
Scott B. Lukins, of Washington, to be a member of the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board for a term expiring October 11, 1995, vice John David Davenport, term expired.
  