
    Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to nominate the following individuals to key positions in his Administration:
Leora Rosenberg Levy of Connecticut, to be Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the United States of America to the Republic of Chile.
Leora Levy serves as the Republican National Committeewoman for the State of Connecticut and previously was Finance Chairman of the Connecticut Republican Party. Ms. Levy was one of the first female commodity traders to work as a Sugar Trader and Assistant Vice President at Ambrit Sugars and as an International Sugar, Steel and Copper Concentrates Trader and Traffic Executive for Phibro-Salomon, Inc. She currently serves on the Boards of both SoldierStrong and CT Rising Stars, and she was Co-Chair of the Board of Trustees of the Bruce Museum of Art and Science and Chairman of the Shelter our Strays Campaign in Greenwich. Ms. Levy was recognized by Combined/Joint Task Force 101, Operation Enduring Freedom I, for leading a voluntary effort to furnish and support the traumatic brain injury clinic at Bagram Air Force Base, Afghanistan. Ms. Levy earned an A.B. from Brown University. She is fluent in Spanish and French.
Peter Gaynor of Rhode Island, to be the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, Department of Homeland Security.
Deputy Administrator Peter Gaynor has served as the Acting Administrator of Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) since March 9, 2019. Deputy Administrator Gaynor was confirmed unanimously as the FEMA Deputy Administrator by the Senate in October 2018. Deputy Administrator Gaynor has more than 12 years of experience in emergency management at the local, State and Federal level. Mr. Gaynor served as the Director of the Providence Emergency Management Agency (PEMA) & Office of Homeland Security from March 2008 to December 2014, where he was the only Certified Emergency Manager assigned as a municipal emergency manager within the State of Rhode Island. He was appointed as the Emergency Manager for the State of Rhode Island in January of 2015, where he served until 2018. During his tenure, at both the State of Rhode Island and the Rhode Island Emergency Management Agency City of Providence, he oversaw multiple response and recovery operations as well as managing numerous federally declared disasters. Mr. Gaynor served in the United States Marines from 1977 to 1981 and from 1986 to 2008.

Today, President Donald J. Trump announced his intent to appoint the following individual to a key position in his Administration:
Andrea Wynn of Nevada, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts for the remainder of a six-year term, expiring September 1, 2025.
  