
    Pool Reports by Noah Bierman, Los Angeles Times 



Sent:
Reports:




September 23, 202115:14

VP Pool #1 -Modi bilat set-up
Good afternoon,Pool is staging in the VP's ceremonial office for the meeting w PM Modi. There is a large contingent of 13 reporters from India in today's pool, along with the usual 13 on the American side.
There are two podiums with diplomatic seals set up in the corner and two flags from each country behind them. The conference table behind us has 14 placards set up (list of names in the delegations forthcoming). Harris and Modi name plates are set up facing each other in the center seats.



September 23, 202115:27

VP pool 2 — bilat starts
Harris welcomed Modi at 3:19 and began speaking next to him from the podium through a translator. She praised the country for its commitment to climate, vaccines and Indo Pacific region. She noted that it's his first trip outside South Asia in 16 months. She also talked about the importance of protecting democratic institutions.
She said she knew "from personal experience" and "my family" the importance of protecting democracy.
Modi now speaking. More to come.
Both are in masks — Modi in white and Harris in black.



September 23, 202115:39

VP pool #3
Modi spoke at 3:24 about speaking by phone w Harris during India's covid crisis and the warmth and "sense of kinship" he felt."President Biden and yourself took up the leadership of the United states in a very challenging time" but have already accomplished a lot on covid and climate.He said the two countries are "natural partners" as democracies with similar values and strategic interests.He said he shares Harris' interest in supply chains and space among other things."Between India and the us the very vibrant and strong people to people connections we have" are bridges." you are the source of inspiration for so many people across the world" he did of her personally.He said Indians "are waiting to welcome you" and invited her.
They did not answer questions as they exited through a side door to a patio 15 minutes after they came in. While Modi spoke and gestured with his hands, Harris clasped hers. They did not appear to shake hands or embrace.
Photographers are now outside trying to capture their interactions on the balcony.



September 23, 202116:06

VP Pool #4 quotes and wrap
Here are some quotes. Please check the tape or transcript.
Harris:
"Throughout our history, our nations have worked together and stood together, to make our world a safer and stronger world."
"Mr. Prime Minister, when you and I last spoke, we talked about how our world is interconnected… and the challenges that we face today highlighted that fact…with COVID-19, the climate crisis and the importance of our shared belief in a free and open Indo Pacific region."
"Early in the pandemic, India was a vital source of vaccines for other countries. When India experienced a surge of COVID…the United States was very proud to support India and need its and responsibility to vaccinate its people. And I welcome India's announcement that it will soon be able to resume vaccine production and it is of particular note and admiration that India I'm told is currently vaccinating approximately 10 million people a day."
"The President and I believe very strongly that the United States working together with India would have not only a profound impact on the future of our respective nations but on the world itself" on climate.
"And as it relates to the Indo Pacific, the United States, like India, feels very strongly about the pride of being a member of the Indo Pacific, but also the fragilities of the importance and the strength as well of those relationships, including maintaining a free and open Indo Pacific"
"As democracies around the world are under threat, it is imperative that we defend democratic principles and institutions within our respective countries and around the world, and that we maintain what we must do to strengthen democracy at home and it is incumbent …to protect democracy in the best interest of the people of our country."
"I know from personal experience and from my family of the commitment of the Indian people to democracy, and the work that needs to be done, we can begin to imagine, and then actually achieve our vision for democratic principles and institutions."
Foreign pool is sending Modi remarks separately…



September 23, 202116:23

VP Pool #5 -- delegations
U.S. Delegation VPOTUS1. Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President2. Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President3. Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President4. Sumona Guha, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for South Asia, National Security Council5. Don Lu, Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs6. David Richelsoph, Special Advisor to the Vice President for South Asia
Visiting Delegation H.E. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India1. H.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External Affairs2. H.E. Ajit Doval, National Security Advisor3. H.E. Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Foreign Secretary4. H.E. Shri Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United States5. Mr. Rudra Gaurav Shresth, Joint Secretary to the Prime Minister6. Mr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister




 
Pool Reports below by Lalit K. Jha, Press Trust of India 



Sent:
Reports:




September 23, 202116:16

VPOTUS Foreign Pool Report
Hi,
Adding the remarks of Prime Minister Modi from the meeting with VPOTUS Harris in her ceremonial room. Both the leaders were in masks.
Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke in Hindi. This was their first meeting. VPOTUS Harris and PM Modi had earlier spoken over phone on June 3rd.
(As usual please check against official transcripts)
At the outset Prime Minister Modi thanked VPOTUS for a warm welcome to him and his delegation in Washington DC.
First of all, I'd like to express my gratitude for the warm welcome that you have extended to me and to my delegation.
Prime Minister Modi said some months ago we had an opportunity to talk to each other on the phone. "We had a detailed discussion at that time. You spoke to me so warmly and so naturally, I will always remember that," he said adding that it was indeed a very difficult time. India was confronted with the second wave of the COVID 19 pandemic. A very difficult time for us.
Like a family, the sense of kinship and so warmly, you extended a helping hand, the words that you chose when you spoke to me, I will always remember that, and I'd like to thank you from the bottom of my heart, the prime minister said.
PM Modi said: Like a true friend, you had given a message of cooperation, and a very full of sensitivity and immediately after that we found that the US government, the US corporate sector and the Indian community, all came together to help India.
PM Modi said President Biden and yourself you took up the leadership of the United States in a very challenging atmosphere and challenging times. But within a very short period of time, you have had many achievements to your credit, whether that be COVID, climate or the QUAD. On all these issues, the United States has taken very important initiatives.
PM Modi said amongst the largest democracy and the oldest democracy, between India and the United States, we are indeed natural partners. We have similar values, similar geopolitical interests, and also our coordination and cooperation is continuously increasing.
To strengthen the supply chain, your Excellency, and as far as the new and emerging technologies are concerned, and space, these are the areas of special interest for you. These are areas which are of interest to me too and the special priority. These are areas where our cooperation is very important, PM Modi said.
PM Modi said between that India and the US the very vibrant and strong people to people connections that we have, you know that all too well. More than four million people of Indian origin, the Indian community is a bridge between our two countries, a bridge of friendship and their contribution to the economies and societies of both our countries is indeed very praiseworthy.
PM Modi said you being elected as the Vice President of the United States of America itself has been such an important and historic event. You are the source of inspiration of so many people across the world. I am completely confident that under President Biden and your leadership, our bilateral relationship will touch new heights.
PM Modi said continuing on this journey of victory, Indians also would want you to continue that in India, and therefore they're waiting to welcome you. Therefore I extended to you invitation to visit India.
Both the leaders did not respond to shouted questions.
Before the delegation level talk, the two leaders were seen talking to each other on the balcony.



September 23, 202116:18

VPOTUS Foreign Pool # 2
as provided by VPOTUS office
Manifest
U.S. DelegationVPOTUS1. Nancy McEldowney, Assistant to the President and National Security Advisor to the Vice President2. Tina Flournoy, Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to the Vice President3. Philip Gordon, Special Assistant to the President and Deputy National Security Advisor to the Vice President4. Sumona Guha, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for South Asia, National Security Council5. Don Lu, Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs6. David Richelsoph, Special Advisor to the Vice President for South Asia
Visiting DelegationH.E. Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of the Republic of India1. H.E. Dr. Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, Minister of External Affairs2. H.E. Ajit Doval, National Security Advisor3. H.E. Harsh Vardhan Shringla, Foreign Secretary4. H.E. Shri Taranjit Singh Sandhu, Ambassador of the Republic of India to the United States5. Mr. Rudra Gaurav Shresth, Joint Secretary to the Prime Minister6. Mr. Vivek Kumar, Private Secretary to the Prime Minister




  